PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 26 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 24 JULY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENOF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the
following position were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 24 dated 10 July
2026 closing on 24 July 2026, (1) Administrative Officer: Immovable Asset Register Ref
no: 2026/271, Centre: Bloemfontein Regional Office. Kindly note that the following
position were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 25 dated 17 July 2026
closing on 31 July 2026: (2) Personnel Practitioner: Human Resources Administration
Ref no: 2026/296, Centre: Durban Regional Office. Please note that the above posts
have been withdrawn.
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
ROADS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note that the following post was advertised in
PSVC 25 Dated 17 July 2026 correct salary level for all level 3 posts is R170 226 per
annum. The correct salary level for the post of Cleaner is level 2 R144 024 per annum .
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 09
COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES B 10 - 12
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES C 13 - 14
DEFENCE D 15 - 16
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR E 17 - 38
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT F 39 - 40
HEALTH G 41 - 47
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING H 48 - 50
HOME AFFAIRS I 51 - 57
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT J 58 - 66
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT K 67 - 73
MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES L 74 - 77
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT M 78 - 79
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE N 80 - 85
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION O 86 - 90
SMALL BUSINESS AND DEVELOPMENT P 91 - 92
SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE Q 93 - 98
WATER AND SANITATION R 99 - 102
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE S 103 - 104
GAUTENG T 105 - 111
KWAZULU NATAL U 112 - 121
NORTHERN CAPE V 122 - 125
NORTH WEST W 126 - 130
WESTERN CAPE X 131 - 175
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme. Appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB:
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate
applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for
each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt
of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/01 : DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL TRADE PROMOTIONS REF NO:
3/3/1/58/2026
Directorate: International Trade Promotions
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
3
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree / Advance Diploma
(NQF 7) in Agricultural Economics / Trade / Development Economics. 5 years’
experience at middle/senior managerial level in Agricultural economics /
Agricultural trade / International trade. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants
must have sound knowledge and understanding of the following: Knowledge
and understanding of all relevant legislation and regulations that govern the
Public Service including the Public Financial Management Act and Treasury
Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour Relations Act etc. Knowledge
of the Government policies and priorities in terms of Agriculture. Understanding
of the Government’s international relations policy framework. Understanding of
Government’s vision in terms of international forum and the Intergovernmental
Relations framework. Knowledge and understanding of the Agricultural sector,
Public Administration, various structures and programmes (SADC, NEPAD,
AU, UN). Understanding of relevant regional conventions and protocols.
Understanding of diplomatic protocol. Knowledge and understanding of the
white paper on the transformation of the public service (Batho Pele). Job
Related Skills: Financial management. Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Programme and Project Management. Knowledge management. Service
Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis. People management and
Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication.
Honesty and Integrity. Change management. Extended working hours. Travel
(Including international travel).
DUTIES : Manage economic research and provide regular policy briefs to management.
Conduct research on economic issues and disseminate research findings
through technical reports and briefing documents. Compile, analyse, and
report data to explain economic phenomena and forecast market trends.
Formulate recommendations, policies or plans to guide DoA interventions.
Monitor international trends on agricultural commodity markets and provide
briefs to management. Manage the development of international relations and
trade (bilateral and multilateral) policies related to agriculture. Manage the
analysis and development of policies and advice bilateral trade. Manage the
analysis and development of policies and advice multilateral trade. Provide
inputs with regards to the signing of trade agreements. Provide the necessary
documentation for stakeholder consultations. Manage the implementation of
international trade (bilateral and multilateral) policies and agreements related
to structure. Implement obligations in terms of trade agreements. Monitor the
implementation of trade agreements by the Department. Facilitate, co-ordinate
and support the implementation of international trade agreements and policies.
Monitor the implementation of trade policy and trade obligations by other
trading partners. Facilitate, coordinate and guide the support of international
relations with governments, organisations and forums in the Americas,
Australasia, Europe and Middle East. Facilitate, co-ordinate and guide the
sector participation in multilateral forums and Rome based agencies. Manage,
undertake and support trade negotiations, in order to improve international
access and contribute towards fair trade rules. Manage the preparations of
policy discussion documents to inform South Africa’s international trade in
agriculture (including cross cutting e.g non-tariff barriers). Manage the
preparation of negotiating positions for the relevant bilateral and multilateral
trade negotiations. Co-ordinate and manage research that forms the basis for
negotiation of treaties. Undertake, manage and support trade negotiations
regarding agriculture. Represent the Department in international trade fora.
Undertake and manage support negotiation of bilateral agreements. Manage
the provision of trade intelligence to the agriculture sector. Provide input with
regards to the development of export and import policies and regulations.
Manage the preparation of and collaborate with the DTI in compiling economic
impact assessments of international trade policies on procedures, exporters
and consumers. Co-ordinated and manage research into foreign trade policies
and best practice. Provide advice and recommendations on research
outcomes. Manage, co-ordinated and guide international and multilateral
relations with governments, organisations and forums in the UN Americas,
Australasia, Europe and Middle East. Manage, negotiate and implement the
bilateral Agreements with South-South and North-South regions. Manage,
negotiate and implement Multilateral agreements relating to agriculture.
4
Support the participation of the department in at the World Trade Organisation
and Official Development Assistance Programme, as well as implementation
of global norms and standards by International Organisations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Komape Tel No: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DITPrecruit58@nda.gov.za
POST 26/02 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN GRADE A-C REF NO: 3/3/1/59/2026
Chief Directorate: Inspection and Quarantine Services
SALARY : R407 337 – R610 131 per annum, (OSD), (all-inclusive package to be
structured in accordance with OSD)
CENTRE : North-West: Buffelspoort
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Biological Sciences or relevant qualification. Compulsory
registration with South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions
(SACNASP) as a Certificated Natural Scientist. A minimum of 3 years post
qualification technical (Scientific) experience. Job Related Knowledge:
Programme and Project management. Scientific methodologies. Research and
development. Computer-aided scientific applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Creating high performance culture.
Professional judgement. Data analysis. Mentoring. Job Related Skills:
Creativity. Self-management. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication. Computer literacy. Networking. People
management. Planning and organising. Conflict management. Change
management. Problem solving and analysis. Extended working hours.
Handling of hazardous chemicals.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures.
Perform technical scientific functions and tasks that require interpretation in the
presence of an established framework. Apply operational standards and
consolidate methodologies, policies, systems and procedures. Identify gaps
and develop appropriate interventions. Prepare for and participation in
research activities. Data collection through field surveys. Maintenance,
calibration and operation of scientific equipment. Provide technical support and
advice. Develop working relations with client base. Promote public awareness
of scientific activities. Provide technical/scientific data, information and advice.
Perform scientific analysis and regulatory functions. Preparation of data and
routine interpretation. Database and data management. Analysis of technical
scientific data. Dissemination of information. Apply the appropriate scientific
and technical procedures/skills to generate information and knowledge.
Formulate proposals and compile reports. Develop and customize operational
procedures. Research and Development. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Conceptualise
and development of scientific equipment. Equipment review.
Research/literature studies to improve expertise. Publish and present technical
reports and research findings. Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
technology-related matters. Human Capital and Development. Mentor, train
and develop candidate research technicians and others to promote
skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound scientific principles and code
of practice. Supervise technical support and processes. Manage the
performance management and development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T. Pongolo Tel No: (021) 809 1640
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
STGrecruit59@nda.gov.za
NOTE : African, Coloured, Indian Males and Coloured, White Females and persons
with disability.
POST 26/03 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (SUPERVISOR) REF NO: 3/3/1/60/2026
Directorate: Food Safety and Quality Assurance
SALARY : R338 106 annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Stellenbosch
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate. A Certificate in
wine will be an added advantage. Job Related Work Experience: Three (03)
years administration experience in Wine Online certification system and user
5
support. Job Related Knowledge: Departmental policies and prescripts.
Relevant regulations of the Liquor Production Act, 1989 (Act No 60 of 1989).
Knowledge of wine cultivars and different types of liquor as defined in the
Liquor Products Act. Knowledge of export and import procedures,
compositional and labelling requirements of the Liquor Products Act.
Procurement procedures. Quality assurance practices. Cultural diversity. Job
Related Skills: Ability to communicate well and interact with people at different
levels. Integrity and discretion. Filing of documentation. Issuing of invoices.
Wine Online help desk support and client liaison. Registration, processing and
issuing of export and import documentation. Knowledge of wine cultivars and
different types of liquor. Ability to interpret the Act and regulations. Data
capturing and typing skills. Planning and execution. Management and
Organising. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving skills. Analytical skills.
Listening Kills. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence and the ability to drive.
Training of Wine Online users. Acceptance of responsibilities. Quality of work.
Self-discipline. Communication. Teamwork. Attitude. Computer literacy. Report
writing. A valid driver’s license. Extended working hours.
DUTIES : Maintain control of exported and imported liquor products. Registration, data
capturing and processing of import/export documentation on Wine Online.
Issuing documentation. Maintain records on Wine Online. Problem solving in
Wine Online. Invoicing. Preparing statistical reports. Handling enquiries.
Capturing and linking consignees/branches. Correcting LIMS interface errors.
Registering exporters/importers. Maintaining registration information.
Overseeing sample registration, discarding samples and vinotheque records.
Resolving sample registration issues. Issuing compliance letters. Stakeholder
Liaison. Providing advisory services to clients, external and Internal
stakeholders. Training personnel and clients. Maintaining Wine Online
helpdesk. Answering and resolving queries. Validating export certificates.
Interpreting import/export procedures. Identifying and resolving blacklisted
clients on WOL to ensure adherence to legislative prescripts.
Registration/cancellation of A and B codes for liquor products in terms of
Regulation 40 of the Act. Verifying and oversee invoicing processes. Supervise
and provide financial and supply chain administration and technical line admin
support services in the component. Provide information required for shifting
into the correct item codes on the budget. Assist with financial management of
budget / 25% expenditure per quarter. Budget assistance. Ensuring proper
allocation of expenditure and monitor expenditure targets. Verifying invoices.
Overseeing procurement processes. Maintaining financial records and asset
registers. Assist with monthly and quarterly import and export reports. Oversee
adherence to waste management and health and safety requirements. Ensure
effectively filed documentation. Supervise human resources/staff. Allocating
work. Check, verify and update documentation/registers (leave forms, EPMDS,
overtime). Updating work plans and performance standards. Performance
assessment. Staff development. Manage export admin office to ensure
effecting Wine Online support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Wendy Jonker Hanekom Tel No: (021) 809 0374
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ACSrecruit60@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African Males, and persons with disability.
POST 26/04 : SENIOR LABORATORY ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/3/1/61/2026
Directorate: Food Safety and Quality Assurance
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Stellenbosch
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. Job Related Work
Experience: Three (03) years appropriate experience. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of Public Service and Departmental prescripts/ policies. Agricultural
Product Standards Act, Act 119 of 1990. Liquor Products Act, Act 60 of 1989.
Job related skills: Knowledge and application of the laboratory quality system.
Knowledge of work-related policies and procedures. Laboratory techniques
and safety. Problem solving techniques. Effective communication. Provisioning
Administrative system (chemicals, equipment etc.). Data processing.
Applicable relevant analytical techniques. Effective managing of stores and
ordering of miscellaneous stores. Use of relevant laboratory and office
equipment. Manual dexterity. Communication capabilities. Insight capabilities
6
in the application of quality assurance documentation. Accuracy, thoroughness
and timeousness. Computer skills, application/usage of computer software.
Code 08 Drivers license. Alert and troubleshooting skills. Administrative and
organisational skills. Language capabilities with regard to the understating of
quality system documentation. Planning skills. Self-developmental inclined,
Ability to work in a team. Training skills/give guidance. Willingness to work
extended hours. Handling of hazardous chemicals.
DUTIES : Prepare samples and perform routine analysis for the determination of
chemical residues / liquor products composition components (quality control):
Labelling of samples. Collecting/taking samples for preparation (fruits,
vegetables and or other agricultural products). Preparations of sample material
by weighing, drying, cutting etc. Preparation of stains, buffets and reagents.
Visual inspection and collection of infected material if possible. Perform
extractions and basic analyses of samples. Record analyses results. Storage
of samples. Packing and / or transport samples. Assist in decontamination and
disposal of used samples. Removal of waste. Perform basic maintenance on
selected equipment and instrumentation. Report all faulty equipment and
instrumentation. Perform verification and calibration on selected equipment
and instrumentation. Maintain tidiness of laboratories, clean/sterilize glassware
and equipment. Clean laboratory facilities. Clean glassware and laboratory
equipment. Perform administrative and related functions. Inventory control of
equipment and consumables of equipment. Record keeping and updating of
identified registers (registration book, samples referral, samples received,
records of results, inventory of standards, reagents, chemicals, waste
removal). Assist with invoicing of analyses. Comply with health and safety
regulations, Mentoring of Laboratory Assistants.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Xoliswa Tlali Tel No: (021) 809 1643
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SLArecruit61@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Females and Persons with disability.
POST 26/05 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 3/3/1/63/2026
Directorate: Cooperatives
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. No experience
required. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Job related skills: Language skills, good communication skills
(verbal and written), Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy,
Interpersonal relations, Flexibility and Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filling system for the component. Type letters
and/or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Provide supply chain
clerical support services within the component. Liaise within internal and
external stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Obtain
quotations complete procurement forms for the purchasing of standard office
items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep and maintain the asset register
of the component. Provide personnel administration clerical support services
within the component. Maintain a leave register for the component. Keep and
maintain personnel records in the component. Keep and maintain the
attendance register of the component. Arrange travelling and accommodation.
Provide financial administration support services in the component. Capture
and update expenditure in the component. Check correctness of subsistence
and travel claims of officials and submit to manager for approval. Handle
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sibusisiwe Matanda Tel No: (012) 319 8143
7
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ACrecruit63@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
POST 26/06 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 3/3/1/62/2026
Directorate: Inspection and Quarantine Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Free State: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. No experience
required. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well
as the ability to capture data, operate a computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment. Job related skills: Language skills, good communication skills
(verbal and written), Planning and organisation skills, Computer literacy,
Interpersonal relations, Flexibility and Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Electronically and manually
record data / Update registers and statistics. Provide a reception / switchboard
service and handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Provide monthly photocopier readings to stakeholders and log
repairs. Provide monthly notice of receipts for photocopier. Report building
maintenance/accommodation matters. Handle incoming and outgoing mail and
packages to various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filling
system for the component. Provide a secretarial service to draft agenda and
take minutes, arrange meetings, venues and accommodation and travel
arrangements. Type letters and / or other correspondence when required. Keep
and maintain the incoming and outgoing document register of the component
Update and maintain the relevant databases. Compile and submit the relevant
reports, memos and submissions as required. Keep and maintain a Key
Control Register. Provide supply chain clerical support services within the
component. Liaise within internal and external stakeholders in relation to
procurement of goods and services. Obtain quotations, complete procurement
forms for the purchasing of office items and contracts. Stock control of office
stationery, toiletries/cleaning material, face value forms, assets and uniforms
and issue inventory. Keep and maintain the asset register of the component.
Administer movement and disposal of assets of the component. Draft reports
for assets and loss control as necessary. Assist with the verification of asset
reports for the various divisions for the quarterly asset report. Assist with the
coordination of losses for the quarterly loss report Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Process and
record Application for leave and maintain a leave register for the component.
Keep and maintain personnel records in the component. Compile and maintain
attendance register of the component. Handle enquiries, e.g. leave,
termination, appointments, PMDS, Performance Agreement, etc. Provide
advice and guidance to officials regarding human resources matters. Submit
training documentation and maintain training records. Provide financial
administration support services in the component. Financial administration
support services. Assist with the budget by providing information, capturing and
updating expenditure for the component. Facilitate payment for goods and
services. Administer, check and verify S&T claims and advances, update the
S&T claim and Advance control register and personnel record. Handle
telephone accounts and petty cash for the component. Check and verify cell
phone and 5G applications and upkeep of the database and cell phone register.
Check and verify overtime claims and update the overtime register. Generate
invoicing and weekly invoice registers and monthly invoice reconciliations.
Monthly payment and reconciliation of the courier account. Provide
stakeholders with invoices and other account-related information. Render
transport administrative support services. Coordinate the utilisation of
government vehicles. Issue trip authorisations and garaging applications to
officials, manage and control issuing of vehicles and petrol cards. Conduct
inspections of vehicles. Verify driver’s licenses of officials before issuing
departmental vehicles. Ensure vehicles are serviced and / or maintained
according to the requirements. Report damage to vehicles. Coordinate the
repair of vehicles (resulting from accidents, breakdowns, etc). keep record of
8
log sheets, trip authorisations, verify Wes Bank transaction reports, etc.
Arrange travelling and accommodation. Completing a accident report, loss
reports and other transport related reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Kuben Naidoo at 082 881 2262
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ACrecruit62@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African, Indian, White Males and Indian Females and Persons with
disability.
9
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Department is an equal opportunity organisation and intends to promote equity through the filling of
these posts. Candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the Department will receive preference, in particular Persons with Disabilities
and Youth.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
link quoted in the specific advertisement below. This link requires applicants to
use a Google account.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted with two (2) attachments: 1. A Z83 Form (2021
version), obtainable from the DPSA website (Z83 editable) and 2. A recently
updated comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. If either or all of these two
attachments are not submitted, the applicant’s application will be disqualified.
Each post advert must be accompanied by its own application form for
employment and must be fully completed, initialed and signed by the applicant.
Applications received after the closing date will not be considered. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications obtained and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following communication from Human Resources and will be
subjected to verification by the South African Qualifications Authority.
Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification must also provide an
evaluation certificate issued by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA), at own expense. Failure to submit the requested documents will result
in the application not being considered further. Due to the anticipated large
volume of responses, correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. After the pre-entry assessments, an oral
interview will be conducted. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). By responding to the
advertisement, applicants consent to the collection, processing and storing of
their Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA) Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates will therefore be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct the verifications. Information will be used for the purpose of
recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy
you have applied for and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent, unless required by law. All applicants must declare any conflict or
perceived conflict of interest and must disclose membership on Boards and
directorships associated with. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months of the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The submitted CVs will be destroyed as legislated in the National
Archives Act. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide the requested information will result in
your application not being considered further. The Department reserves the
right not to make an appointment to the advertised post(s). The successful
candidate must disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
an employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty.
A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed within three months
from the date of assumption of duty. Notes for applicants of SMS posts:
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to the finalisation of the appointment, is a requirement for all
SMS positions. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and
interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
10
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences,
emotional intelligence, and integrity.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/07 : DIRECTOR: STATE-OWNED ENTITIES GOVERNANCE REF NO: DSOEG
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
The purpose of the post is to manage, coordinate and provide SOEs corporate
governance and oversight services.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (the all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules).
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7/ degree in Auditing / Law / Accounting / Corporate
Governance or relevant equivalent qualification as recognised by the South
African Qualifications Authority. Five (5) years’ experience at Middle/ Senior
Management level in Enterprise /SOEs corporate governance oversight
services of organisations/public entities. Postgraduate qualifications in
Corporate Governance will serve as an added advantage. Skills /
Competencies and Knowledge: Core competencies: At an advanced level in
Strategic Capability and Leadership; Government Administrative Processes;
People Management and Empowerment; Programme and Project
Management; Financial Management, Service Delivery Innovation, Problem
solving and analysis, Client Orientation, Customer-focused Communication.
Technical knowledge and competencies: Knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Companies Act
2008, Knowledge of King IV Report on Corporate Governance in South Africa,
Review and analysis of governance documents / frameworks / processes /
submissions, Interpretation of Governance Legislation and Policy Frameworks,
Review and Assessment of Compliance with Policies, Laws, Basic Research,
Analytical Thinking, Report Writing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will manage and drive the development, review and
implementation of the Departmental shareholder governance framework.
Manage and monitor shareholder governance instruments applicable to
assigned entities, including shareholder compacts, governance agreements
and Memoranda of Incorporation. Manage assessments of governance
performance and compliance of SOEs with shareholder compacts/governance
agreements and other governance instruments. Manage the assessment of
board governance, board, committee and executive evaluations, and
implementation of approved governance improvement plans. Manage the
Board appointment and remuneration process and analyse executive
appointment submissions from assigned entities, including preparing
recommendations for Ministerial consideration. Manage the coordination and
facilitation of the Minister’s participation in SOE-related governance structures
(annual general meetings and Minister-Board quarterly forum meetings),
analysis of SOE annual reports and other reports submitted for the meetings
and tabling of SOE annual reports. Manage oversight of interventions arising
from audit findings within assigned entities, including assessing audit
implications and recommending corrective actions. Manage preliminary
assessments of allegations of misconduct across the SOE portfolio, oversight
of formal investigations conducted by external service providers, and
monitoring of implementation of investigation recommendations and corrective
governance measures. Contributing to key result areas such as strategic
functional leadership, managing human resources, managing financial
resources, driving change and operational excellence, and managing and
ensuring compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo Tel No: (012) 12 427 8514, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms
N Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599
APPLICATIONS : Link : CLICK HERE
11
OTHER POST
POST 26/08 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BROADCASTING TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES
REF NO: DDBTS
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
(This post is being re-advertised. Applicants who applied previously are
welcome to re-apply).
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (this all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Pension
Fund, a medical fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Hatfield
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Broadcasting /
Telecommunications/ ICT/ Engineering/ Communication and Media studies or
equivalent relevant field, as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Broadcasting /
Telecommunications/ ICT/ Engineering relevant environment at Assistant
Director level / middle management. Skills / Competencies and Knowledge:
Core competencies: Understanding of digital broadcasting; Understanding of
signal distribution; Understanding of Broadcasting Engineering Principles;
Acceptance of Responsibility; Communication; Initiatives; Job Knowledge;
Planning and Execution; Quality of work; Reliability; Teamwork. Technical
competencies: Broadcasting Infrastructure Development; Broadcasting
Engineering; Digital Migration Expertise; Stakeholder Management and
Collaboration; Monitoring and Evaluation.
DUTIES : To manage and coordinate the design and implementation of Broadcasting
Technologies programmes and strategies to support the achievement of the
DCDT strategic objectives. The successful candidate will: Contribute technical
insights to the development of Broadcasting Technologies programmes,
strategies and plans. Coordinate the planning and implementation of national
broadcasting infrastructure projects. Coordinate the implementation of South
Africa’s digital migration strategy from analogue to digital broadcasting and
manage the efficient use of broadcasting spectrum to enhance service quality
and expand access. Provide support on the development and review of
policies, regulations, and technical standards that govern broadcasting
services and technologies, ensuring alignment with national and international
broadcasting frameworks. Support initiatives for the adoption and integration
of emerging broadcasting technologies, such as IPTV, OTT (Over-the-Top)
services, and 5G broadcasting, to drive innovation and modernisation in the
sector. Collaborate with industry stakeholders, including public and private
broadcasters, content creators, regulatory bodies (ICASA), and international
broadcasting organisations, to foster partnerships and drive broadcasting
infrastructure development. Conduct oversight monitoring on the
implementation of projects and programmes within the broadcasting
infrastructure directorate. In addition to the above, the key result areas also
require: Project management, managing financial resources, driving change
and operational excellence and managing compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Cilo Tel No: (012) 427 8514, Ms N Khosa Tel No: (012) 427 8260, Ms N
Sekele Tel No: (012) 427 8599
APPLICATIONS : Link: CLICK HERE
12
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES
The Department of Correctional Services is an equal opportunity employer. The Department will take into
consideration the objectives of Section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996
(Act 108 of 1996) and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) in filling of these vacancies. It is
our intention to promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of
these positions. In support of this strategy, applicants need to indicate race, gender and disability status
on the application form/CV. Applicants who have retired from the Public Service with a specific
determination that they cannot be re-appointed or have been declared medically unfit will not be
considered.
APPLICATIONS : Send your complete application to: Free State and Northern Cape Region: The
Regional Commissioner Free State and Northern Cape, Recruitment Section,
P/Bag X20530, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR hand deliver at: 103 Zastron Street,
Agrimed Building, Bloemfontein, 9300 OR submit online at:
https://careers.dcs.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2026 @ 15:45. It is the sole responsibility of an applicant to ensure
that their application reaches DCS before the closing date.
NOTE : All costs associated with an application will be borne by the applicant.
Candidates must comply with the minimum appointment requirements. CV’s
should be aligned to reflect one’s degree of compliance with the advert
requirements and responsibilities. Please take note that correspondence will
only be conducted with the shortlisted candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application is unsuccessful. Please do not call the
department to enquire about the progress of your application. Applicants must
note that further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that
their appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which
include security clearance, security vetting, qualification verification and
criminal records verification. Appointment will be provisional, pending the issue
of a security clearance. If you cannot get a security clearance, your
appointment will be re-considered/possibly terminated. Fingerprints may be
taken on the day of the interview. The Z83 application form must be completed
in full. Only a detailed CV should be attached to your application form. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies not older than
6 months of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Please submit a complete application for the post you apply for
and attach your supporting document on a pdf format, stating the correct
reference for the position you are interested in. Requirement for valid driver’s
licence is not applicable to applicants with a disability. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All appointments are subject to personnel suitability checks and will be made
in accordance with applicable legislation, policies and fair recruitment
practices. The Department of Correctional Services reserves the right not to fill
any of these advertised posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/09 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A: ELECTRICIAN REF NO: FSNC 2026/07/20
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R397 329 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Colesburg Management Area
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training
Act (Red Seal). Five (5) years post qualification experience as an Artisan. Valid
driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Team leadership. Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided applications. Knowledge of legal
compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Decision making, teamwork and analytical skills.
Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication, planning and organizing skills. Conflict Management.
13
DUTIES : Training and development of offenders. Management of administration task.
Control over workplaces and tools. Inventory control and logistical
administration as well as efficient management of resources and work orders
and compliance with administration. Design, production, maintenance,
performance administrative and related function. Maintain and advance
expertise. Management of human and financial resources and assets.
Management of performance information.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T / Ms. Ramncwana B (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 26/10 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A: PLUMBER AREA REF NO: FSNC
2026/07/21
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Colesburg Management
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training
Act (Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and
skills. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical
skills. Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Train offenders in the applicable trade. Execute work as per requisition/orders
received from clients. Apply quality control to manufactured products. Costing
of product and supply quotes. Execute basic workshop administration. Perform
maintenance services. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T / Ms. Ramncwana B (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
POST 26/11 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A: WELDER REF NO: FSNC 2026/07/22
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (plus 37% in lieu of benefits)
CENTRE : Free State and Northern Cape Region: Colesburg Management Area
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Trade Test Certificate underwritten by the Manpower Training
Act (Red Seal). Valid driver’s licence. Competencies And Attributes: Technical
analysis knowledge. Computer-aided technical applications. Knowledge of
legal compliance. Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and
skills. Problem solving and analysis. Decision making. Team work. Analytical
skills. Creativity, self-management, customer focus and responsiveness.
Communication. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Train offenders in the applicable trade. Execute work as per requisition/orders
received from clients. Apply quality control to manufactured products. Costing
of product and supply quotes. Execute basic workshop administration. Perform
maintenance services. Manage resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State and Northern Cape region: Ms Mokuni NJ / Ms Molutsoane N/ Ms
Radebe T / Ms. Ramncwana B (082) 306 9027.
NOTE : Appointment under the Public Service Act.
14
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Defence Intelligence Division, Private Bag X367,
Pretoria, 0001 or hand delivered at Liberty Building 278 Madiba Street, Pretoria
Central or email to sessionworkers@di.mil.za
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026 at 16h00 (Applications received after the closing date and
faxed copies will not be considered).
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of this posts with candidates whose transfer/promotion /
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan. Applications must be submitted on
the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service Department office
i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an application be received
using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will be disqualified, which
must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and which must be
accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the applicants’
training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience). Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preference, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. The competency assessment will be limited to successful candidates
in the interview process only. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability checks (pre-employment screening) which may include
social media profiles checks. A successful candidate will have to undergo a full
security vetting while in the employ of the department and negative outcome
shall nullify employment contract. Failure to submit the required documents will
result in your application not being considered. Successful candidates will be
required to disclose their financial interests within one (1) month of
appointment. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback within 3
(three) months after the closing date, please consider your application
unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of
applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job description(s)
please contact the person indicated in the post details. Successful candidates
will be appointed on probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of
the prescribed rules.
15
OTHER POST
POST 26/12 : VETTING SESSION WORKERS (FREELANCERS) REF NO: DI/24/26/26 (X5
POSTS)
Re-advertised, Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
Two (2) years fixed contract
SALARY : R214.92 per hour and does not exceeds 180 hours per month.
CENTRE : Defence Intelligence Division, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with Diploma / Advance
Certificate / National Diploma/ (NQF Level 6) specialising in faculty of
humanities (Social sciences, Psychology, Counselling, Investigation, Social
Worker, Criminology and/or other relevant qualification/certificates). A
minimum of 1 year experience in Administration /Client interaction and/or 1
year experience in Field Investigation or Evaluation. Valid driving license and
own vehicle is essential. Special requirements (skills needed): Computer
literacy, communication skills (Good verbal and written), report writing skills,
listening skills and interpersonal relations skills. Excellent analytical thinking,
problem solving and reasoning ability. Knowledge and course of Vetting
Fieldwork. Ability to capture data, operate computer and collect information.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework of public service.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible to perform the following duties:
Planning and preparation of files and other relevant administration.
Documentary enquires, gather information and conduct vetting investigation
through interviews. Writing reports based on documentary enquiries and
interviews. Compile and submit reports to Director vetting management on
required vetting files and reports completed on a regular basis. Provide inputs
for the development and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and
standards in vetting investigation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T.C. Nkopane Tel No: (012) 315-0508
NOTE : Kilometres claims will be reimbursed according to inline tariffs. First three (3)
months is training and will be compensated by R8 174.75 of stipend.
16
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/13 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: HR4/4/3/2ASDIA/UIF
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Auditing /Auditing / Accounting /
Computer Science / Information Systems / Informatics / IT Auditing at NQF
17
Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Registered Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)
and / or Information Systems and Control Association (ISACA). Certified
Information Systems Auditor (CISA) / Professional Internal Auditor Certification
(PIA) / General Internal Auditor Certification (GIA) / Certified Internal Auditor
(CIA) / Certified Risk Management Assurance (CRMA) will be an added
advantage. Four (4) years of experience of which- two (2) years must be
functional experience in Internal Audit / IT Audit environment. Two (2) years at
a supervisory level. Knowledge: Conflict Management. Audit Techniques.
Policy analysis. International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF).
Internal Standards for the professional Practice of Internal Auditing. Global
Internal Auditing Standards Skills Communication. Coordinating. Presentation.
Conflict and Problem Solving. Planning and Organising Computer Literacy.
Interpersonal. Team Leadership. Report Writing. Data Analytics Self
Disciplined and Self-Management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs in the development of the three-year rolling and annual risk-
based audit plans. Coordinate a strategic risk-based audit plan in the fund.
Undertake advisory and assurance services. Conduct the internal audit
activities in support of the oversight role of the audit committee. Manage
resources (Human, Financial, Equipment / Assets) in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mabago Tel No: (012) 337 1609
APPLICATIONS : email: Jobs-UIF6@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to White Males, Females and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/14 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT &
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/4/7/5
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KwaZulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resources Management/ Public
management/ Employee Relations at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Four (4) years of which two (2) years must be functional experience in human
resources management and employee relations environment, and two (2)
years must be at a senior practitioner level. Driver’s license will be added as
an advantage. Knowledge: Public Service transformation and management
issues, White paper on transformation of Public Service, Ability to convert
policy into action, Human Resources Systems and Procedure, Public Service
Act and Resolutions, Recruitment and Selection, Departmental Policies and
Procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Minimum information Security Standards,
PERSAL and other HR information management systems. Skills:
Communication (verbal and written), Computer Literacy (Excel, Word, Power
Point, Persal, etc.), Innovative/ Creative, Presentation, Responsiveness,
Report Writing, Time Management, Organizing and Planning, Financial
Management, Policy Analysis, Problem Solving and Decision Making.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the implementation of human resources management
policies in the province. Monitor and provide advice on the implementation of
Employment Relations policies and prescripts. Coordinate and manage the
implementation of Employment Equity programmes. Monitor the administration
of service benefits. Manage resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/ Assets)
in the division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, P O Box 940, Durban, 4000
Or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For Online Application:
Jobs-KZN33@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/15 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER EMPLOYEE RELATION REF NO: HR4/4/7/6 (X2
POSTS)
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KwaZulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resources Management/ Public
Management/ Employee Relations at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Two (2) years’ must be functional experience in Employment Relations
Management environment. Driver’s license will be added as an advantage.
18
Knowledge: Public Service Commission’s rules for dealing with complaints and
grievances, Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council’s Resolutions,
Interpretation of case law and trends in Labour Law, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour Relations Act
(LRA), Employment Equity Act (EEA), PSCBC and CCMA procedure. Skills:
Negotiation, People Management, Problem Solving, Presentation, Planning
and Organizing, Communication, Presentation, Computer Literacy, Report
Writing.
DUTIES : Conduct and analyse all grievances and complaints received from employees
in the province. Draft charges and finalise all misconduct cases in the
department. Represent the department in all disputes referred to the General
Public Service Sectoral Bargaining Council (GPSSBC) and the Commission for
Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, P O Box 940, Durban, 4000
Or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For Online Application:
Jobs-KZN33@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/16 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR 4/4/7/7
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KwaZulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/
Development/ Training and Development/ Management of Training/ Public
Management/ Industrial and Organisational Psychology at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Two (2) years’ functional experience in Human
Resources Management/ Training and Development/ Performance
Management Services. Drivers Licence will be added as an advantage.
Knowledge: Public Service Act (PSA), Public Service Regulations (PSR),
Public Service Regulations Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Human
Resource Development Policies, Human Resource Systems (PERSAL), Skills
Development Act (SDA), Skills Development Levies Act (SDLA), Labour
Relations Act (LRA), Basic Condition of Employment Act, Employment Equity
Act (EEA), Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Skills:
Communication, Computer Literacy, People Management, Project
Management Presentation, Report Writing, Time Management, Design and
Development, Organizing and Planning, Problem Solving, People
Management, Presentation, Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation Human Resource Development initiatives in
the province. Coordinate the implementation of Performance Management
System in the province. Implement Internships/Learnership Programmes and
Induction Programmes. Manage resources (Human resources (Human,
Finance, Equipment/ Assets) in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, P O Box 940, Durban, 4000
Or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For Online Application:
Jobs-KZN17@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/17 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/7/8
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KwaZulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/Public
Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Driver's License will be
an added advantage. Two (2) years functional experience in human resource
management environment. Knowledge: Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public Service Regulations (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), Labour
Relations Act (LRA), Employment Equity Act (EEA), PSCBC and CCMA
Procedures, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Negotiation, People Management,
Problem Solving, Presentation, Planning and Organizing, Communication,
Computer Literacy, Report Writing.
19
DUTIES : Monitor the Recruitment and Selection process. Facilitate the processing and
approve service benefits. Provide and monitor termination of service at the
province. Monitor establishment and the implementation of HR policies.
Supervise resources (Human, Finance, Equipment/ Assets) in the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, P O Box 940, Durban, 4000
Or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For Online Application:
Jobs-KZN14@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 26/18 : TEAM LEADER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Pietermaritzburg Ref No: HR4/4/6/2 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Dundee Ref No: HR4/4/6/5 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12, three (3) year tertiary qualification in Labour Relations/
LLB. Two (2) years’ functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement
Services. A valid motor vehicle driving license. Knowledge: Departmental
policies and procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational
Health and Safety Act, COIDA, NMWA, SABS Codes, Unemployment
Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act
Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing, Computer literacy,
Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem Solving
skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and
written communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with all labour legislations, namely, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Act (LRA), Employment Equity Act
(EEA), Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA), Occupational Health and Safety (OHS),
and UI Contribution Act (UCA). Plan and execute investigations independently
on reported cases pertaining to contravention of labour legislation and enforce
as and when necessary, including preparing for and appearing in court as a
state witness. Plan and conduct allocated proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly
to monitor compliance with labour legislation including compilation and
consolidation of reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct
advocacy campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact
thereof, consolidate and compile report. Manage the finalisation files of cases
received, and investigations conducted by the Inspectors. Contribute at a
higher-level planning, drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JSM September, Tel No: (033) 341 5305 (Pietermaritzburg)
Mr M Mthimkhulu Tel No: (034) 212 2421 (Dundee)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Pietermaritzburg Labour Centre, P/Bag X9048,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 Or hand deliver at 370 Langalibalele Street,
Pietermaritzburg. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN12@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Dundee Labour Centre, PO Box 445, Dundee, 3000 Or hand
deliver at 63 Victoria Street, Dundee. For Online Applications Email to: Jobs-
KZN4@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Priority will be given to White Males and Females
POST 26/19 : OHS INSPECTOR: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/6/1
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three-year recognised qualification at NQF 6/7 in the
relevant field, i.e. Electrical Engineering. Valid Driver’s licence. Registration
with the relevant, recognized professional body is an advantage but not
compulsory. No experience required. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations
(21), South African National Standards (Codes) – incorporated Codes become
regulations, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and Organizing,
Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills,
Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing
20
skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in court as a state witness, plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections, Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu Tel No: (031) 336 1500
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Marine Parade, 4056
Or hand deliver at Govt Buildings, Masonic Grove, Durban. E-mail: Jobs-
KZN7@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Priority will be given to White Males and Females
POST 26/20 : OHS INSPECTOR: CIVIL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/6/3
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kokstad
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three-year recognised qualification at NQF 6/7 in the
relevant field, i.e. Civil Engineering. Valid Driver’s licence. Registration with the
relevant, recognized professional body is an advantage but not compulsory. No
experience required. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South
African National Standards (Codes) – incorporated Codes become regulations,
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment
Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and Organizing, Communication skills,
Computer literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling
skills, Negotiation skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing skills,
Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act, Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in court as a state witness, plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ngqoza Tel No: (039) 727 2140
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Kokstad Labour Centre, PO Box 260, Kokstad, 4700 Or hand
deliver at 59 Hope Street, Kokstad, 4700 E-mail: Jobs-KZN1@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Priority will be given to White Males and Females
POST 26/21 : OHS INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/6/4
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Pinetown
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three-year recognised qualification at NQF 6/7 in the
relevant field, i.e. Mechanical Engineering. Valid Driver’s licence. Registration
with the relevant, recognized professional body is an advantage but not
compulsory. No experience required. Knowledge: Departmental policies and
21
procedures, Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, Regulations
(21), South African National Standards (Codes) – incorporated Codes become
regulations, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and Organizing,
Communication skills, Computer literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills,
Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem Solving skills, Interviewing
skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills, Analytical skills, Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in court as a state witness, plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislation independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including,
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Gwala Tel No: (031) 713 9100
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Pinetown Labour Centre, PO Box 1025, Pinetown, 3610 Or
hand deliver at 49 Kings Road, Pinetown, 3610 E-mail: Jobs-
KZN11@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE Priority will be given to White Males and Females
POST 26/22 : OHS: INSPECTOR: MECHANICAL ENGINEERING REF NO: HR4/4/6/05
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Jane Furse
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year recognised qualification in the relevant
field, i.e., Mechanical Engineering. Valid driver’s License. Registration with the
relevant, recognised professional body is an advantage but not compulsory.
Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, as amended, Regulations (21), South African National Standards
(Codes)- incorporated Codes become regulations, Compensation for
Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployment Insurance Act.
SKILLS: Planning and Organizing, Communication skills, Computer Literacy,
Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills,
Problem solving skills, Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovation skills,
Analytical skills, Verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspection with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standard. To confirm registration of with the
Unemployment Insurance Act and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries
and Diseases Act. Plan, investigate and finalise independently incidents and
complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and the relevant regulations and
enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court as a State witness. Plan and
conduct allocated proactive inspections as per schedule to monitor compliance
with the relevant labour legislation including compiling and consolidating
reports emanating from such inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy
campaigns on all labour legislations independently, analyse impact thereof,
consolidate and compile report. Contribute at a higher level to planning,
drafting and maintenance of regional inspection plans and reports including
execution of analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on
regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290 1665
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or email: CFJobs-
JF@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Coloured Female, Indian Female, White
Male, White Female.
22
POST 26/23 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: HR4/26/07/13HO
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/Undergraduate Bachelor
Degree(NQF7) in Office Management/ Financial Management/ Public
Administration/ Business Administration/ Business Management. Minimum of
one (1) year functional experience in office management or inspections and
enforcement services. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures.
Public Finance Management Act, Minimum term expenditure budgeting
processes, financial administration processes and systems, Computer literacy
(MS Packages, excel, word, PowerPoint and ability to use email). Skills:
Planning and organizing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving,
Communication (Verbal and Written).
DUTIES : Perform budget planning for the Inspection and Enforcement Services Branch.
Perform Human Resources functions for the Inspection and Enforcement
Services Branch. Perform the functions of procurement of goods and services
for the Inspection and Enforcement Services Branch. Coordinate information
on complaints received. Consolidation of Performance Information.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Ruiters Tel No: (012) 309 4407
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ4@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Males and Females,
Indians Males and Indian Females and White Males and Females.
POST 26/24 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1-3: MEDICAL ADJUDICATION REF NO:
HR 4/4/6/04
Re-advertisement applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 - R397 392 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 2: R411 978 – R485 289 per annum, (OSD)
Grade 3: R495 423 - R635 088 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Labour: Centre, Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : Four (4) years’ degree (NQF7)/ three (3) years’ Diploma in Nursing (NQF6).
Post Graduate Diploma (NQF8) in Occupational Health / Theatre Technique /
Critical Care will be an advantage. Grade 1: 2-9 Years’ experience gained after
registration, Grade 2: 10-19 Years’ experience gained after registration. Grade
3: 20 Year’s and above experience gained after registration. Experience in
trauma/emergency/internal medicine/general surgery/orthopaedics/theatre at
the regional public hospital level or private hospital. Experience in medical
claims processing/insurance environment will be an added advantage.
Registration with the South African Nursing Council. Knowledge: Medical
related Legislation, Medicines and related Substances Act, Medical aid
knowledge (case management), Occupation Health knowledge, Regulatory
Knowledge & Implementation, Del and Compensation Fund objectives and
business functions, Nursing legislations and related legal as well ethical
nursing practices, Compensation Fund policies, procedures and processes,
Stakeholders and customers, Customer Service (Batho Pele Principles), Fund
Values, Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS), COIDA Act, Regulations
and Policies, COIDA tariffs, Technical Knowledge, PFMA and National
Treasury Regulations, General knowledge of the Public Service Regulations,
Public Service Act, Health Professions Act, Health Act. Skills: Post claims
management and settlement, Claims handling, Claims settlement
management, Medical Policy Management, Clinical Excellence and Advisory,
Project Management and Planning, Information Analysis and Interpretation,
Digital Acumen/Medical Systems (IT Systems Control Designs), Clinical
Coding, Quality Assurance and Improvement, Research and Benchmarking.
DUTIES : Provide advice and recommendation in the acceptance of liability. Recommend
the approval for medical accounts. Provide medical advice on the processing
of occupational injury claims. Determine PD (Permanent Disability) and TTD
(Total Temporary Disability). Assess medical accounts on occupational injury
claims and OD medical accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JM Fope Tel No: (015) 290 1665
23
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9368, Polokwane, 0700 Or
hand deliver at 42a Schoeman Street, Polokwane or Email address: CFJobs-
MOD@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Coloured Male, Coloured Female, Indian Female, White
Male, White Female
POST 26/25 : HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/7/9 (X4
POSTS)
(Three (3) year contract)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of benefits
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KwaZulu Natal
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Knowledge: PERSAL, HR information
management system, knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, and operate computer. Working knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service,
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment. Understanding of the work in registry. Skills: Communication,
Computer literacy, Innovative/Creative, Presentation, Report writing Time
management, Organizing and Planning, Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Implement human resource administration practices (Recruitment and
Selection), implement conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury
on Duty, Long Service Recognition, Overtime, Relocation, Pension,
Allowances, PILLIR or etc.), Facilitate performance management function,
Address human resource administration enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Gumede Tel No: (031) 366 2355
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, P O Box 940, Durban 4000
Or hand deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For Online Application:
Jobs-KZN8@labour.gov.za
POST 26/26 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INSPECTION & ENFORCEMENT SERVICES
REF NO: HR4/4/7/1
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Estcourt Labour
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Administrative
procedures relating to an office, Filing and retrieval of documents, Ability to
operate fax machine and a photocopier, Data capturing Skills: Planning and
Organizing, Communication, Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Render administration support services to the Directorate, Control the
movement of documents and files in the Directorate, Provide Supply Chain
Management support in the Directorate, Render Human Resource Services
support for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Fakazi Tel No: (036) 352 7767
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Estcourt Labour Centre, PO Box 449, Estcourt, 3310 Or hand
deliver at 75 Phillip Street, Estcourt. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN6@labour.gov.za
NOTE : EE targets- Priority will be given to African Males, Indian Males, White Males
& White Females.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE FUND GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMMES FOR 2027/2028 TO 2029
FINANCIAL YEAR.
NOTE : The Department of Employment and Labour would like to invite qualifying
applicants to apply for Unemployment Insurance Fund Graduate Internship
programme, for the Financial year 2027/2028 to 2029. The Graduate
Programme is meant to provide work exposure to graduates in their fields of
studies. The applicants must be unemployed, never participated in any
Internship Programme (both Public or Private sector).
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/27 : INTERNSHIP: OFFICE OF THE UIF COMMISSIONER REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3OUIC2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
24
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Secretariat Studies/ Office Administration
and Office Management/ Management Assistant at NQF Level 6 as recognised
by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in any Internship
Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Computer Literacy, Interpersonal, Communications, Listening,
Customer Focused, Research and Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support services in the office of the UIC.
Render administrative support services in the office of the UIC. Provide support
in the management of the Commissioner’s diary including the events calendar,
arrange meetings and workshops.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern01@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/28 : INTERNSHIP: AUDIT/ GOVERNANCE COORDINATOR REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3AGC2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Audit/Auditing/ Accounting at NQF
Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated
in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Auditor
General Processes and Procedures. Internal Audit Manual and Methodology
Public Service Act (PSA). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Labour Relations Act (LRA). Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA). Unemployment Insurance Amendment Act (UIA).
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Skills: Communication.
Computer Literacy. Time Management. Interpersonal. Report Writing. Planning
and Organizing. Analytical. Creative. Facilitation. Presentation.
DUTIES : Assist internal and external audit coordination. Provide assistance in requests
from and external auditors Assist the implementation of Audit Action Plans.
Provide assistance in the implementation of PROBITY process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern02@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/29 : INTERNSHIP: COMPLIANCE SUPPORT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3CS2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Audit/Auditing/ Accounting at NQF
Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated
in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Public
Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA). Labour Relation Act (LRA). Employment Equity Act
(EEA). Skills: Report writing. Policy Analysis, Development and Management.
Computer Literacy. Communication. Research Methodology. Analytical and
Creativity. Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in the implementation of the compliance universe. Provide
assistance in conducting the compliance Risk Assessment. Assist in
implementation of the compliance plan. Provide assistance in reviewing of
policies and procedures in line with the compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern03@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/30 : INTERNSHIP: RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/RM2026/UIF (X4
POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Risk Management / Internal Control /
Corporate Governance / Compliance / Public Management / Public
Administration at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience
required (Never participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private
sector). Knowledge: Risk Management Policies and Strategy. Batho Pele
Principles. Anti – Fraud and Corruption Policies. Skills: Communication.
25
Computer Literacy. Innovation/ Creative. Presentation. Report Writing. Time
Management Organizing and Planning. Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Render support service in the implementation of risk framework/ strategies.
Participate in the conducting of research on aspects of risk. Provide support in
the Risk Management programme through communication and training.
Administer fraud account.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern04@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/31 : INTERNSHIP: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/IA2026/UIF (X4
POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Auditing / Finance / Accounting / IT
Auditing at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required
(Never participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector).
Knowledge: Evidence gathering and Audit Execution. Internal Audit Process.
Treasury Regulations and internal Audit Standards. Batho Pele Principles.
Public Financial Management Act. Skills: Report writing. Computer Literacy.
Communication. Research Methodology. Analytical and creativity. Problem
Solving. Presentation. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Render support in carrying out audit engagement planning. Participate in the
development of audit projects. Provide internal audit administration support
services. Provide assistance in examining audit progress.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern05@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/32 : INTERNSHIP: STRATEGIC PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/SPME2026/UIF (X3 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Audit / Forensic Audit / Economics /
Accounting/ Accounting Science/ Commerce/ Development Studies/ Social
Science/ Monitoring and Evaluation/ Business Management/ Business
Administration at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience
required (Never participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private
sector). Knowledge: Policy Framework for the Government-Wide Monitoring
and Evaluation System. Monitoring and Evaluation platform/ Principles.
Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. Research Methodology. Skills:
Communication. Computer Literacy. Innovative/ Creative. Presentation. Report
writing. Time Management. Organizing and Planning. Financial Management.
Problem Solving.
DUTIES : Administer appropriate governance to support the Fund’s strategy
development process. Assist in the implementation of monitoring and
evaluation framework. Facilitate the evaluation and analysis of service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern06@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/33 : INTERNSHIP: RESEARCH AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/RPD2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Development Studies/ Social Science/
Monitoring and Evaluation/ Business Management/ Business Administration/
Public Administration at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience
required (Never participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private
sector). Knowledge: Policy Framework for the Government-Wide Monitoring
and Evaluation System. Monitoring and Evaluation platform/ Principles.
Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. Research Methodology. Skills: Report
writing. Policy Analysis, Development and Management. Computer Literacy.
26
Communication. Research Methodology. Analytical and Creativity. Problem
Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Render support in conducting policy research and policy analysis for UIF.
Participate in the development, monitoring and review of policies, strategies,
frameworks and guidelines in UIF. Render assistance in administrative support
to the Sub-directorate
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern07@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/34 : INTERNSHIP: ADMINISTRATOR OFFICE OF THE CIO REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/CIO2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Secretariat Studies/ Office Administration
and Office Management/ Management Assistant at NQF Level 6 as recognised
by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in any Internship
Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Computer Literacy, Interpersonal, Communications, Listening,
Customer Focused, Research and Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support services in the office of the CIO.
Render administrative support services in the office of the CIO. Provide
assistance in the management of the CIO’s diary including the events calendar,
arrange meetings and workshops
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern08@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/35 : INTERNSHIP: IT PROJECTS REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/ITP2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology/ Computer Science/
Project Management at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience
required (Never participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private
sector). Knowledge: Application of research methodology. Quality
management principles and processes. Project Management principles and
methodologies. Project Management Information System. Skills: Problem
solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Communication Computer
Literacy. Reporting Writing. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Coordinate delivery of projects within the Fund. Facilitate project deliverables
in line with the Fund strategic objectives, quality standards and expectations.
Coordinate project/programme quality management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern09@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/36 : INTERNSHIP: IT BUSINESS SUPPORT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/ITBS2026/UIF
(X4 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology/ Computer Science /
Information Systems/ Informatics / Computer Systems Engineering at NQF
level 6 as recognized by SAQA No experience required (Never participated in
any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: State
Information Technology Agency (SITA) Processes. Infrastructure and Network
Architecture Design. Electronic Communication Transaction Act. Electronic
Document Management System. Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS). Skills: Communication (Witten and Verbal). Presentation. Computer
Literacy. Analytical. Problem Solving. Report Writing. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide desktop support and computer systems. Prepare hardware and
workstation support for users. Provide support in maintaining maximum access
of Technology equipment. Support functioning of technology.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern10@labour.gov.za
27
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/37 : INTERNSHIP: IT INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/ITIS2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology / Computer Science
/ Information Systems / Informatics / Computer Systems Engineering at NQF
level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in
any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge:
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Electronic Communications and Transactions Act
(ECTA). Cybercrimes Act. National Archives and Records Service Act. Skills:
Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Analytical.
Communication Skills Both Written and Verbal. Ability to influence. Computer
Literacy. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Provide support in installation, configuration, maintenance of LAN and WAN
(Local. Area Network, Wide Area Network). Provide support in network
monitoring functions (LAN and WAN). Support in planning and providing
technical expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services E-mail: UIF-Intern11@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/38 : INTERNSHIP: IT BUSINESS APPLICATION REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/ITBA2026/UIF (X6 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology / Computer Science
/ Information Systems / Informatics / Computer Systems Engineering at NQF
level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in
any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge:
Protection of Personal Information (POPIA). Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Electronic Communication and Transactions Act
(ECTA). Cybercrimes Act. National Archives and Records Services Act Skills:
Communications (Written and Verbal). Presentation. Computer Literacy.
Analytical. Problem Solving. Report Writing. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Provide support in Process Improvement through systems implementation.
Participate in customizing Business Application processes. Provide support in
Business Application processes. Provide support in gathering and document
Business Application improvement requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: E-mail: UIF-Intern12@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/39 : INTERNSHIP: ICT RISK AND SECURITY REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/ICTRS2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology / Computer Science
/ Information Systems /. Informatics / Computer Systems Engineering at NQF
level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in
any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge:
Protection of Personal Information (POPIA). Promotion of Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Electronic Communication and Transactions Act
(ECTA). Cybercrimes Act. National Archives and Records Services Act. Skills:
Financial Management. Communication (Written and Verbal). Presentation.
Computer Literacy. Analytical. Problem Solving. Report Writing. Planning and
Organizing.
DUTIES : Support in developing and implement information security policies, procedures
and standards. Provide support in ensuring availability of business – critical
Information Communication Technology services and applications. Provide
support in monitoring and evaluate Information Communication Technology
risk and policy compliance. Provide Support in the development,
28
Implementation and maintenance of Business Continuation and disaster
recovery plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern13@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/40 : INTERNSHIP: ADMINISTRATOR OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/AOD2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Secretariat Studies/ Office Administration
and Office Management/ Management Assistant at NQF Level 6 as recognised
by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in any Internship
Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Computer Literacy, Interpersonal, Communications, Listening,
Customer Focused, Research and Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support services in the office of the Director.
Render administrative support services in the office of the Director. Provide
assistance in the management of the Director’s diary including the events
calendar, arrange meetings and workshops.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern14@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/41 : INTERNSHIP: HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTICES REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/HRP2026/UIF (X6 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/ Public
Management/ Public Administration/ Organizational Psychology/ Industrial
Psychology at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required
(Never participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector).
Knowledge: PERSAL. HR information management systems. Skills:
Communication Computer literacy. Innovative/ Creative. Presentation. Report
writing. Time management. Organizing and Planning.
DUTIES : Assist in administration of service benefits and service conditions. Conduct
recruitment, selection and placement process and implement employment
equity plan. Maintain personnel records and staff establishment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe: 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern15@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/42 : INTERNSHIP: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/ER2026/UIF
(X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Labour Relations/ Human Resource
Management/ LLB at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience.
Must never be participated in any internship programme (for both public and
private sector). Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Public
Service Regulations (PSR) Public Service Act (PSA). Labour Relations Act
(LRA). Employment Equity Act (EEA). PSCBC and CCMA Procedure. Skills:
Negotiation, Problem solving, Presentation, Planning and Organizing,
Communication, Computer literacy, Report writing.
DUTIES : Provide support in handling all Labour relations cases in the Fund (i.e
grievance, misconduct and Labour disputes). Provide support in the
implementation of Labour Relations Act. Policies, guidelines, procedures and
provide advice thereof. Support in representing the department in conciliations,
arbitration and bargaining chambers (under supervision).
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern16@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
29
POST 26/43 : INTERNSHIP: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELNESS PROGRAMME REF
NO: HR4/4/1/3/EHWP2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Social Work/ Psychology at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in any
Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Employee
Health Wellness Programs. Mental Health Care. Occupational Health and
Safety Act. Departmental policies and procedures. Skills: Counselling.
Motivational. Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Report Writing. Creativity. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide support in the management of Employee Health and Wellness
programmes. Provide assistance in the management of HIV/ AIDS, TB
Programmes and chronic illness. Provide assistance in the management of
Health and Productivity programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern17@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/44 : INTERNSHIP: DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/DM2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Social Sciences/ Gender Studies/ Youth
Studies at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required
(Never participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector).
Knowledge: Public Service Act and Regulations (PSAR). Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA). Public Financial Management (PFMA). Departmental
policies and procedures. Human Resource Management Policies. Code of
Ethics. Batho Pele Principles. Skills. Communication (Verbal and written).
Organizational Skills. Negotiation skills. People Management. Interpersonal
skills. Presentation skills. Report Writing skills. Planning and organizing.
Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Provide support in implementing Gender, Disability, Youth and diversity
management programmes within the Fund. Participate in Gender, Disability
and Youth Forums within the Fund. Assistant in promoting mainstreaming,
development and empowerment of woman, youth and people with disabilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern18@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/45 : INTERNSHIP: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/OHS2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Occupational Health and Safety/ Health and
Safety/ Safety Management/ Environmental Management/ Environmental
Health at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required (Never
participated in any Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector).
Knowledge: Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Labour Relation Act (LRA).
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA). Public Finance Management. Act
(PFMA). Code of Ethics. Batho Pele Principles. Safety procedure guidelines.
Fire equipment standards prevention. Procedures. Disaster Management. All
Labour Legislations. Skills. People Management. Problem Solving.
Presentation Planning and Organizing Analytical skills. Communications.
Computer Literacy. Report Writing. Creativity.
DUTIES : Assist in maintaining Health, Safety and Security of Staff in all UIF buildings.
Assist in monitoring the implementation of the requirements for SHE (Safety
Health and Environment) Programme. Assistant in verifying Occupational
Health and Safety (OHS) Risk assessments. Participate in OHS Investigations
at UIF buildings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe: 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern19@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
30
POST 26/46 : INTERNSHIP: TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/TD2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Management of Training/ Human Resource
Development/ Industrial and Organizational Psychology at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any
Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Public
Financial Management (PFMA) Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public
Service Act (PSA). Skills. Communication. Computer Literacy. Time
management. Negotiation. Presentation. Problem Solving. Planning and
Organizing. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Provide Learnership and internships functions program. Implement bursary
programs. Provide induction and orientation programs in the fund.
Implementation of human resource development and workplace skills plan
programs (AET, MDP). Assist in implementation of business training.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe: 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern20@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/47 : INTERNSHIP: EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/EPM2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Human Resource Management/Public
Management/ Public Administration / Human Resource Development/
Industrial and Organizational Psychology at NQF Level 6 as recognized by
SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in any Internship
Programme (both Public / Private Knowledge: Human Resource Management.
Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Performance Management
System (PMS). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Skills: Time Management.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Interpersonal. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Participate in the implementation of Performance Management and
Development System (PMDS) for the Fund. Render support to the Fund’s
Performance Structures. Participate in the capturing of Performance
Management documents on PERSAL. Assist in providing Performance and
Development System advice and guidance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe: 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern21@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/48 : INTERNSHIP: ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, BUSINESS PROCESS
AND CHANGE MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/ODBPRCM2026/UIF
(X3 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Management Services/ Production
Management/ Operations Management / Industrial Engineering/ Work-Study/
Industrial and organizational Psychology at NQF Level 6 as recognized by
SAQA. No experience required (Never participated in any Internship
Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Organizational
Development relating prescription. Change Management strategy. Business
Processes related prescripts. Skills: Communication. Computer Literacy. Time
Management. Negotiation. Presentation. Problem Solving. Planning and
Organization. Report writing.
DUTIES : Perform organizational design services in the Fund. Develop, review and
update Business Processes and SOP’s for Fund. Provide support in change
management initiatives within the Fund.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe: 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern22@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
31
POST 26/49 : INTERNSHIP: LEGAL SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/LS2026/UIF (X5
POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law / Paralegal Studies at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA No experience required (Never participated in any
Internship Programme (both Public / Private sector). Knowledge: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Treasury Regulations. Public Service
Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act (PSA). Unemployment Insurance Act
(UIA). Promotion of Administration Justice Act (PAJA). Law of evidence.
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). The Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Constitutional Law. Labour Relations Act (LRA).
Criminal Procedure Act. Litigation Procedures. Skills: Communications.
Computer Literacy. Time Management. Negotiation. Presentation. Problem
Solving. Planning and Organising. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Provide Legal advice and support to the Fund under supervision of the Senior
Legal Admin Officer. Provide support in handling of litigation for and on behalf
of the Fund. Provide assistance in drafting of legal documents (legislation,
policies, regulations, contracts, memorandum of understanding, service level
agreements and other legal bidding documents etc) for the Fund. Provide
support in processing of sections for Benefit Applications under supervision of
the Senior Legal Officer. Provide general legal administrative support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern23@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/50 : INTERNSHIP: BOARD SERVICES AND CASE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/BSCM2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration / Public Management /
Business Administration / Business Management / Office Management at NQF
Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated
in any internship programme (for both public and private sectors). Knowledge:
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR).
Public Service Act (PSA). Treasury Regulations, Basic Accounting Systems
(BAS). Minutes writing. Relevant legislation/ policies/ prescripts and
procedures. Department's policies and relevant procedures. Skills: Computer
Literacy. Interpersonal. Communications (verbal and written). Listening.
Analytical skills. Problem Solving. Presentation. Report writing. Planning and
organising.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in UIF national appeal cases referred by provinces. Provide
Assistance with Secretariat, administration and support services to the Board
and its Committees. Provide assistance in technical/ general support on
enquiries referred to the Board and its Committees. Assist in supply chain
management process, logistical arrangement and maintenance of the asset
register.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern24@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/51 : INTERNSHIP: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/CG2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Corporate Governance/ Business
Management/ Administration/ Auditing/ Law at NQF Level 6 as recognised by
SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any internship
programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge: Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service
Act (PSA). Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations (UIAR).
Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act (UICA). Skills: Computer Problem
Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organising. Analytical Skills.
32
Communication (Both Written and Verbal). Ability to influence. Computer
Literacy. Report Writing. Time Management. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in the implementation of Corporate Governance
Charters for Committees in the Fund. Support research on corporate
governance best practices. Assist in maintaining the effectiveness of corporate
governance structures in the Fund. Provide support in legislative compliance
and audit coordination processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe: at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern25@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/52 : INTERNSHIP: COMMUNICATION AND MARKETING REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/COM2026/UIF (X3 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Journalism / Communication/ Public
Relations/ Marketing Management/ Media studies/ Web Graphic Design/
Multimedia at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience required.
Never participated in any internship programme (for both public and private
sector). Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act (PFMA). Promotion of
Access to Information (PAIA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public
Service Act (PSA). Skills: Branding Management. Branding Principles.
Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organising. Communication
(both written and verbal). Computer Literacy. Innovation and creative.
Analytical.
DUTIES : Administer marketing and events for the Fund. Provide support in effective
stakeholder relations. Assist in coordinating media relations and monitor the
activities for the Fund. Assist in providing effective publications for the Fund.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
Applications: Chief Director: Corporate Services:
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern26@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/53 : INTERNSHIP: DEMAND AND ACQUISITION REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/DA2026/UIF (X6 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Logistics Management/ Purchasing
Management/ Procurement Management at NQF Level 6 as recognised by
SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any internship
programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge: None. Skills:
Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organising. Communication.
Computer Literacy. Report writing. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Render demand management services. Render acquisition management
services. Render logistics management services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern27@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/54 : INTERNSHIP: MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/MM2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Property Management / Facilities
Management/ Real Estate Management / Public Management/ Public
Administration/ Business Management/ Business Administration at NQF Level
6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any
internship programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge: None.
Skills: Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and organizing.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Report writing. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Render facilities management services. Render office automation services.
Render telecommunication and reception services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern28@labour.gov.za
33
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/55 : INTERNSHIP: RECORDS MANAGEMENT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/RM2026/UIF
(X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Archives Records Management/ Public
Management/ Public Administration/ Information Science at NQF Level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any
internship programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge: National
Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act. Promotion of the Access to
Information Act (PAIA). Public Service Regulations (PSR). Public Service Act
(PSA). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA). Skills: Record Management. Financial Management.
Analytical. Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing.
Communication (Verbal and Written). Computer Literacy. Report Writing
Presentation. Planning and Organizing. Communication (Verbal and Written).
Computer Literacy. Report Writing.
DUTIES : Provide support in the implementation of record-keeping systems and control
mechanisms. Provide support in the implementation of records management
systems (the provision of storage and custody of records). Implement the
disposal of records in accordance with National Archives and Records Services
of South Africa Act.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern29@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/56 : INTERNSHIP: ASSET AND FLEET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/AFM2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting/ Logistics Management/
Purchasing Management/ Transport Management at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any
internship programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge: None.
Skills Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Report Writing. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide support in rendering fleet administration support services. Provide
assistance with the assets administration support services. Provide assistance
in rendering travel services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern30@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/57 : INTERNSHIP: REVENUE MANAGEMENT: REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/REVM2026/UIF (X3 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Financial Management / Financial
Accounting / Cost and Management Accounting / Accounting / Accountancy /
Public Finance Management at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No
experience required. Never participated in any internship programme (for both
public and private sector). Knowledge: Public Finance Management. Relevant
Financial Systems. Reconciliation Processes. Batho Pele Principles Generally
Recognized Accounting Principles (GRAP), Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). Skills: Problem Solving. Presentation. Planning and
Organizing. Communication (Verbal and written). Computer Literacy. Report
Writing Creativity. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide support in maintaining debtors accounts and collect outstanding
contributions. Provide assistance with the maintenance of SARS & Sundry
debtors records and make follow up on the outstanding sundry payments,
Provide assistance with allocating non-SARS unallocated electronic
contributions to debtor’s accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
34
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern31@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/58 : INTERNSHIP: BUDGET REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/B2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting Sciences/ Financial
Management/ Commerce at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No
experience required. Never participated in any internship programme (for both
public and private sector). Knowledge: Generally Recognised Accounting
Practices (GRAP). Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service
Act (PSA). National Treasury MTEF Guidelines. Treasury Regulations.
Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Unemployment Insurance Contributions
Act (UICA). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Skills:
Communication (both verbal and written). Financial Management. Computer
Literacy. Time Management. Creative. Report Writing. Planning and
Organising. Analytical. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Administer effective budget process in the Fund. Provide support in the budget,
governance and compliance. Assist in preparing budget reports. Provide
support in external/ internal reports
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern32@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/59 : INTERNSHIP: BANK RECONCILIATION REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/BR2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting/ Auditing/ Business Information
Systems/ Economics at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. No experience
required. Never participated in any internship programme (for both public and
private sector). Knowledge: Financial delegations, processes and policies of
UIF. Financial Management principles and Financial Management Directives
from the Treasury. Batho Pele Principles. Generally Recognised Accounting
Principles (GRAP). Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Skills: Communication
(both verbal and written). Computer Literacy. Time Management. Interpersonal.
Report Writing. Planning and Organizing. Analytical. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Administer manual and electronic bank reconciliation services. Provide support
in maintaining bank accounts on general ledger. Assist in identifying
unauthorised and fraudulent transactions on the bank statements. Provide
administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern33@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/60 : INTERNSHIP: AP CLAIMS CREDITORS REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/APCC2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Accounting/ Cost and Management
Accounting/ Financial Management/ Public Finance Management/ Business
Management/ Economics/ Auditing at NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA.
No experience required. Never participated in any internship programme (for
both public and private sector). Knowledge: Financial delegations, processes
and policies of UIF. Financial Management Principles and Financial
Management Directives from Treasury. Batho Pele Principles Generally
Recognised Accounting Principles (GRAP). Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Basic
Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act (UICA). Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA). Skills:
Communication (both verbal and written). Financial Management. Training and
Coaching. Diversity Management Problem Solving. Presentation. Computer
Literacy. Time Management. Interpersonal. Report Writing. Planning and
Organising. Analytical. Numeracy.
35
DUTIES : Administer daily payments of approved benefit claims to eligible beneficiaries.
Provide support in the verification of open vouchers. Assist in gathering
information for financial report on benefits payments. Provide support in
validating beneficiary claims.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern34@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/61 : INTERNSHIP: AP TRADE CREDITORS INTERNSHIP REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/APTC2026/UIF
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Financial Accounting/ Cost and Management
Accounting/ Financial Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA.
No experience required. Never participated in any internship programme (for
both public and private sector). Knowledge: Public Service Act and
Regulations. Basic Conditions of Employment Act Labour Relations Act.
Generally Recognised Accounting Principles (GRAP). Relevant Financial
Systems HR System (PERSAL). Skills: Computer Literacy, Communications.
Interpersonal. Analytical Skills, Time Management. Accounting Report Writing.
Creative. Financial Management. Planning and Organising.
DUTIES : Processing and payment of internal and external invoices within 30 days of
receipt by the Fund. Provision of administrative support for petty cash EFT.
Reconciliation of the Accounts Payable sub-module against the general ledger.
Processing and payment of DEL claims.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern35@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/62 : INTERNSHIP: LABOUR ACTIVATION PROGRAMMES REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/LAP2026/UIF (X6 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration/ Public Management/
Business Administration/ Business Management / Development Studies/
Project Management/ Social Science/Risk Management/ Auditing/ Accounting/
Legal at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required. Never
participated in any internship programme (for both public and private sector).
Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles. Departmental and Fund’s Policies and
Procedures. Skills Development Act (SDA). Public Financial Management Act
(PFMA). Knowledge of the Unemployment Insurance and Unemployment
Insurance Contributions Act. Project Knowledge. Skills: Numeric and analytical
skills, Report writing. Presentation skills, Problem Solving and Decision
Making, Communication (Verbal and written), Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Receive training on the facilitation training/ skills programmes approved by the
Fund. Assist in the administration of project progress against approved
deliverables. Participate in the awareness campaigns of the programme and
its outcomes through publicity and media strategies in co-operation with
Communication section. Provide assistance with general administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern36@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/63 : INTERNSHIP: COMPLIANCE SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/CS2026/UIF
(X4 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Accounting/ Internal Auditing / Auditing at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any
internship programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge:
Treasury Regulations. Generally Recognized Accounting Practice (GRAP).
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP). Debtors Management.
Diversity Management. Skills: Problem solving. Presentation. Planning and
Organizing. Communication. Computer literacy. Report writing. Numeracy.
36
DUTIES : Coordinate the provision of support to employer audit services in Provincial
Offices. Administer debtor’s information and identity non-compliance.
Coordinate declaration and contribution information. Facilitate the evaluation
and monitoring of employer audit services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern37@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/64 : INTERNSHIP: BUSINESS OPERATIONS STATISTICS REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/BOS2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology/ Computer Science/
Information Systems / Operations Management/ Operations Research at NQF
Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated
in any internship programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge:
Public Finance Management (PFMA), Electronic Document Management
System, Public Service Regulations (PSR), Public Service Act (PSA), SITA
MIS, Database & Data Security Policy, System Development and Database
Management, Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS), Promotion of
access to Information Act (PAIA). Skills: Communications, Listening, Computer
Literacy, Time Management, Analytical, Negotiation, Report writing, Planning
and Organizing, Computer Programming.
DUTIES : Provide support on the Implementation of business operations statistics.
Provide assistance in analysing information collected in an enquiry. Provide
assistance on the maintenance of business operations statistics database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire: 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern38@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/65 : INTERNSHIP PROVINCIAL SUPPORT REF NO: HR4/4/1/3/PS2026/UIF (X4
POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Operations
Research/ Public Management/ Business Administration/ Public
Administration/ Administrative Management/ Finance at NQF Level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any
internship programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge: None
Skills: Problem solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing.
Communication. Computer Literacy. Report writing. Numeracy.
DUTIES : Assist in coordination of operation system support to all relevant users in the
Fund. Provide support in statistic information services for provincial operations.
Provide administrative support in operations support services to provinces.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern39@labour.gov.za
For Attention: Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/66 : INTERNSHIP: OPERATION SYSTEMS SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO
HR4/4/1/3/OSSS2026/UIF (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management/ Computer
Science/ Informatics at NQF Level 6 as recognized by SAQA. No experience
required. Never participated in any internship programme (for both public and
private sector). Knowledge: Operations Systems. Systems Development and
Database Management. Skills: Report writing. Computer Literacy.
Communication. Research Methodology. Analytical and Creativity. Problem
Solving. Presentation. Planning and Organizing.
DUTIES : Administer the registration of new users on the operational system. Maintain
user management on the operational system. Administer operational system
on calls logged.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern40@labour.gov.za
37
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
POST 26/67 : INTERNSHIP: DECLARATIONS AND CALL CENTRE SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/1/3/DCCS2026/UIF (X9 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Unemployment Insurance Fund: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Contact Centre Management/ Business
Management/ Business Administration/ Administration Management/ Public
Administration/ Financial Management at NQF Level 6 as recognized by
SAQA. No experience required. Never participated in any internship
programme (for both public and private sector). Knowledge: Unemployment
Insurance Act and Regulations. Unemployment Insurance Contribution Act.
Batho Pele Principles. Call Centre Operating System. Skills: Computer
Literacy. Communication (Verbal and written). Listening. Interpersonal.
Customer Focused. Telephone Etiquette.
DUTIES : Support inbound and outbound call services. Support helpdesk services.
Support maintenance of employer database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr GV Kegakilwe at 082 600 9378 / TN Dire at 082 894 4197
APPLICATIONS : E-mail: UIF-Intern41@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Practices, UIF
38
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.environment.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the above link.
Applicant must ensure that they complete all sections on the online Z83 and
attached a detailed CV with at least three (3) contactable references. Failure
to complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the
applicant. No late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical passement for all SMS posts, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/68 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND
SELECTION REF NO: CMS26/2026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) in Human Resource Management or relevant
qualification within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of two
(2) years’ proven experience in the field of Human Resources Management,
with a specific focus on Recruitment, Selection and Appointments. Candidates
39
must be in possession of PERSAL introduction Certificate. Knowledge of the
recruitment and selection processes. Ability to interpret policies and directives
on HR matters. Skills in formulating and writing reports. Ability to plan and
organise the activities of the division. Good understanding and functional
knowledge of the Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, OSD
Framework, Basic Conditions of Employment Act and Employment Equity Act.
Experience in the use of PERSAL System. Supervisory skills. Good
communication (verbal and written), stakeholder liaison, organising and
planning skills. Good analytical thinking, innovation, and creative skills. Good
computer literacy and use of standard packages. Ability to work long hours and
under pressure. Ability to work independently and in a team.
DUTIES : Provide support, coordinate, and facilitate effective recruitment, shortlisting and
interviewing of competent human resources and ensure compliance with all the
relevant legislation and policy framework. Compile and draft adverts in line with
Job Description and in accordance with the relevant legislative framework.
Advertise vacant posts in the relevant media. Ensure proper management of
applications. Verify captured applications and do quality control. Serve as
technical advisor during shortlisting and interviewing process. Support effective
Personnel Suitability Checks and placement of employees on PERSAL.
Provide advice on all HR related matters. Provide support in the development
and implementation of the Department recruitment policies. Develop, refine
and maintain databases, reports on Recruitment, Selection and Placement.
Provide overall supervision and guidance to staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Diphaha, Email: PDiphaha@dffe.gov.za
POST 26/69 : HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION REF
NO: CMS27/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF4) as recognized by SAQA. Post-matric qualification and
experience in Recruitment, Selection and Appointments will be an added
advantage. knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act and Employment
Equity Act. Good communication (verbal and written), interpersonal, organising
and planning skills. Good analytical thinking, innovation, and creative skills.
Good computer literacy. Ability to work independently and in a team. Ability to
interpret policies and directives on HR matters. Ability to plan and organise the
activities of the division. Ability to work long hours and under pressure.
DUTIES : Render recruitment, selection, and appointments support. Administer job
applications. Provide support with the coordination and processing of
appointment documents. Serve as technical advisor during shortlisting and
interviewing process. Support effective Personnel Suitability Checks and
administer and process placement of employees on PERSAL. Provide advice
on all HR related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Diphaha, Email: PDiphaha@dffe.gov.za
40
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria. 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical exercise for SMS posts, the selection
panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial competency
assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of
competency-based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing
generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment batteries. Applications should be submitted on the
new Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and should be
accompanied by a CV only (previous experience must be comprehensively
detailed). The Z83 must be fully completed (in line with DPSA Practice note),
failure to comply will automatically disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualification and other relevant documents on
application. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will
be requested prior to the final selection phase. Applications should be on one
PDF format (If emailed). Applications received after the closing date and those
that do not comply with the requirements will not be considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications and national certificates
(where applicable) evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the
collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance
with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will
be used solely for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with
third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The Department
reserves the right not to fill the posts. The successful candidate will be
subjected to personnel suitability checks and other vetting procedures.
Applicants are respectfully informed that correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If notification of an interview is not received within
three (3) months after the closing date, candidates may regard their application
as unsuccessful. The Department will not be liable where applicants use
incorrect/no reference number(s) on their applications.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/70 : DIRECTOR: DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION REF NO: NDOH 61/2026
Chief Directorate: International Health and Development
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consists of 70% of total package, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic salary) and a flexible portion]. The
flexible portion of the package can be structured according to the Senior
Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in International Relations
Diplomacy / Social Sciences / Public Health and/or Health Sciences. NQF 8
qualification of the above will be an advantage. At least five (5) years’
experience at middle/senior management level in international negotiations
41
and partnership management, resource mobilization and donor coordination.
Knowledge of Public Service policies, regulations and procedures,
international relations and foreign policy frameworks. Knowledge of global
health diplomacy and international health systems as well as development
cooperation and ODA management. Global health trends and multilateral
systems. Good communication (verbal and written), strategic leadership and
policy development, programme and project management, financial, change
and knowledge management, service delivery innovation, people management
and empowerment, high-level of negotiation and diplomacy, stakeholder
engagement and partnership management and decision-making skills. A valid
driver’s license. SMS pre-entry Certificate is required for appointment
finalization.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and development cooperation. Develop and
implement strategies to promote South Africa’s international health
development agenda. Establish and strengthen bilateral, trilateral and
multilateral partnerships with international stakeholders. Manage and mobilise
official development assistance (ODA) resource for health sector in South
Africa. Lead the development of funding proposals, agreements, and
partnership frameworks. Coordinate the implementation of donor-funded
programme at national and provincial levels. Ensure effective, monitoring and
reporting of donor funds in line with regulatory requirements. Coordinate,
evaluate and monitor development cooperation framework and project. Ensure
alignment and integration across national, provincial and regional health
programmes. Compile strategic and operational reports for executive
management and stakeholders. Manage resources and financial. Provide
leadership, mentorship and performance management to staff. Ensure sound
financial management and accountability of allocated budget. Develop and
implement risk management plans within the directorate. Respond to audit
findings and implement corrective measures. Strengthen governance systems
and internal controls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mnisi Tel No: (012) 395 8830
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/71 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HEALTH PROMOTION REF NO: NDOH 62/2026
Chief-Directorate: Health Promotion, Nutrition & Oral Health
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 undergraduate qualification in Health
Sciences / Social Sciences / Health Promotion and/or Nursing qualification as
recognized by SAQA. At least three (3) years’ experience as an Assistant
Director in health promotion / disease prevention / healthy lifestyle promotion /
communicable diseases / non-communicable diseases / public health and/or
related programmes. Knowledge of relevant Acts, regulations and policies
within the Department of Health related to health promotion and disease
prevention. Understanding of health promotion principles, behaviour change
approaches and social, economic, environmental and commercial
determinants of health. Knowledge of South Africa’s health system structure
and public health service delivery models. Understanding of interventions
related to healthy eating, physical activity, tobacco control, reduction of harmful
alcohol use, mental wellbeing promotion, communicable disease prevention
and other public health priorities. Knowledge of public health programme
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation systems, as well as
policy, strategy, guideline and training material development and review
processes. Principles of management and people management. Good
technical and analytical thinking, communication (verbal and written),
presentation, facilitation, organisational, planning, conflict resolution, project
management and computer (MS package) skills. Ability to work independently
and as part of a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop National guidelines, framework, strategies and tools for the
implementation of HLS programme. Coordinate and provide technical
guidance for the development and review of healthy lifestyle policies, norms
and standards, strategies and guidelines. Facilitate alignment with WHO
recommendations, national health priorities and relevant legislative
42
frameworks. Manage stakeholder consultation processes to validate technical
documents and interventions. Provide technical support to provinces for
implementation of healthy lifestyle interventions and programmes. Coordinate
and support the development and dissemination of implementation tools,
communication materials and training packages. Conduct support visits to
monitor and evaluate implementation of healthy lifestyle programmes and
compliance with national guidelines and standards. Coordinate
implementation, monitoring and reporting of national healthy lifestyle
interventions and programmes. Monitor programme performance,
implementation progress and utilisation of resources to ensure achievement of
programme targets. Identify implementation challenges, risks and gaps, and
facilitate corrective actions and continuous programme improvement. Compile
reports on programme performance and implementation outcomes to inform
planning and decision making. Provide technical support to internal and
external stakeholders for the implementation of HLS programme. Facilitate
establishment and strengthening of intersectoral collaboration mechanisms to
support implementation of healthy lifestyle interventions. Represent the
department in relevant technical forums and committees. Manage resources
and audit risks. Manage human and operational resources. Sign performance
agreements of ASDs and PDPs as well as conduct mid-year and annual
performance reviews. Respond to audit queries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Mudzanani Tel No: (012) 395 8740
POST 26/72 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HEALTH INTERNATIONAL STRATEGIC
PROGRAMME (HISP) REF NO: NDOH 56/2026
Chief-Directorate: Human Resources for Health
Re-advert, applicants who previously applied need to re-apply.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Health / Social Sciences. A
postgraduate NQF 8 in the same fields will be an advantage. At least three (3)
years’ experience at an Assistant Director or equivalent level in strategy and
planning environment. Experience should include working with international
organisations and or partners in the implementation of health programmes.
Knowledge of the Public Service Legislation including but not limited to the
Health Act. Knowledge and understanding of National Health Act and the South
African Health System, as well as government planning and policy
development practices/processes and methodologies. Research management
including project and funding proposal writing. Knowledge of writing terms of
preference and concept documents as well as data and information analysis.
Good communication (verbal and written), analytical, project and research
management, networking and stakeholder management, strategic and
operational planning, advocacy and presentation, problem solving and
decision making, financial management and computer (MS package) skills.
Ability to work independently and as part of a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate Human Resources Interventions and facilitate technical input on
International Health programmes such as implementation of the SADC HRH
Strategy, National Action Plan for Health Security (NAPHS) for compliance with
International Health Regulations. Provide succinct briefings on key strategic
issues in the health workforce area to inform International Health discussions
and interventions. Develop and formulate substantive project proposals for
building capacity in the HR for health sector. Development, monitoring and
evaluation of implementation of the HRH (Human Resource for Health)
strategy and plan at all levels of the health system. Identify, analyse and
facilitate long-term modelling of the sector skill requirements, accounting for
trends in regulations, technology, demographics, etc. to meet strategic sector
and organizational objectives. Coordinate and support health workforce
planning across provinces. Engage provinces on the National HRH Strategy in
support of its implementation or development. Coordinate and facilitate
meetings, workshops and presentations to stakeholders. Strengthen of HRH
workforce planning capability at all levels of the health system. Facilitate the
development of a locus of health workforce planning expertise and resources
for the health system. Manage projects aimed at ensuring HRH readiness and
availability for emergency preparedness. Oversee the implementation of the
43
disaster/emergency HRH readiness plan including ensuring capability and
mechanism for implementing business continuity measures. Management of
the sub-directorate. Manage resources (financial and human) allocated to the
sub-directorate, including undertaking financial and human resource planning.
Prepare different types of reports, briefing documents, terms of reference etc.
as and when required on the work of the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G Buthelezi Tel No: (012) 395 8706
POST 26/73 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: COMMUNITY HEALTH WORKERS REF NO: NDOH
57/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration package), (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package). The flexible portion of the package
can be structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Directorate: Human Resource for Health, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Health Sciences as
recognized by SAQA. A qualification in training or development will be an
advantage. At least three (3) years’ appropriate experience in primary health
care as Assistant Director or equivalent level. Knowledge of primary health care
and rural service management, community-health worker programme, training
and development legal prescripts and health promotion strategies. Good
communication (verbal and written) and information management, leadership
and management, project management, problem solving and decision making,
planning, organization, interpersonal, analytical, liaison and coordination,
presentation and facilitation and computer (MS Office package) skills. Ability to
work under pressure, independently whilst integrating tasks with team
members and willingness to travel and work irregular hours. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Facilitate and ensure the development and implementation of a training
programme for Community Health Workers. Assist in designing, implementing,
and monitoring community health programs focused on improving public health
outcomes. Develop policies, analyse and review existing Community Health
Workers policies and guidelines in line with the primary health care
reengineering model. Assist provinces with business and operational plans.
Ensure that community health programs align with national health policies and
strategies. Regularly assess the performance of community health workers,
providing feedback and identifying areas for improvement. Manage the
development and implementation of HRH policies and guidelines aimed at
facilitating introduction of new health worker categories in the health system.
Establish and maintain relationships with stakeholders, including establishing
a system for managing information on training of community health workers.
Monitoring and evaluation data on health programs under the sub-directorate,
assessing their impact on the community and ensuring that goals and
objectives are met.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Buthelezi Tel No: (012) 395 8706
POST 26/74 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION REF NO: NDOH 64/2026
Chief Directorate: Human Resources for Health
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF 4) certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Management / Office
Administration / Office Management/ Public Management / Public
Administration / Business Management or Business Administration as
recognized by SAQA. At least three (3) years’ experience in office
administration and financial management at supervisory level. Knowledge of
the Public Service Regulations and Public Service Act. Sound understanding
of financial policies as guided by Treasury Regulations. Good communication
(verbal and written), planning, organizing, interpersonal, problem solving and
decision making, liaison and coordination, analytical, project management and
computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Ability to co-ordinate with other units of the Department. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the Chief Directorate. Plan, organise and
control administrative activities pertaining to the Chief Directorate. Manage the
flow of documents within the Chief Directorate. Ensure efficient flow of
information between the Chief Directorate and the entire department.
44
Administer the finances of the Chief Directorate. Co-ordinate procurement
activities and assist with MTEF submissions. Provide secretariat support to the
Chief Directorate and National Human Resource Committee (NHRC). Ensure
proper co-ordination of meetings and ensure timeous submission of minutes
and agenda. Management of human and physical resources. Ensure proper
control of leave records, asset register, procurement of assets/equipment etc.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Malahlela Tel No: (012) 395 8755
POST 26/75 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION – NON COMMUNICABLE
DISEASES REF NO: NDOH 58/2026
Chief-Directorate: Non-Communicable Diseases
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, plus competitive benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Office Administration / Office
Management / Public Management/Administration or Business Management /
Administration. At least three (3) years’ experience as a supervisor on (salary
level 8) in Office Administration. Understanding the application of Government
and Departmental policies, understanding financial policies as guided by
Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of applicable protocols, Public Services
Regulations as well as strategic capability and leadership. Good
communication (verbal and written), interpersonal, project management and
computer (Microsoft package) skills. Ability to work under pressure,
independently and with a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the chief directorate. Plan, organise and
control administrative activities. Consolidate quarterly reports for submission to
Strategic Planning unit. Manage the flow of documents. Ensure efficient flow of
information between branch and the entire department and all documents are
logged on according to the electronic document management system. Ensure
that deadlines on submission are adhered to on Parliamentary matters.
Administer the finances of the chief directorate. Co-ordinate procurement
activities, assist with MTEF submissions and involve in the planning of the
budget. Provide secretariat support to the cluster. Ensure proper co-ordination
of meetings, timeous submission of minutes and agenda. Management of
human and physical resources. Coordinate the procurement activities,
consolidate HR reports and ensure proper control of leave, asset register and
procurement of assets/equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Mongale Tel No: (012) 395 8044
POST 26/76 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: NDOH 59/2026
Directorate: Head International Health Development
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF4) and National Diploma (NQF 6) in Office
Administration, Public Administration or Business Administration /
Administration / Office Management, Public Management or Business
Management. At least three (3) years’ experience at supervisory level in the
field of Administration. Knowledge of departmental procedures with regard to
finances and budgeting. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts
and application of human resources as well as understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of Public finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations, LOGIS and PERSAL systems.
Good communication (verbal and written), problem solving, analytical,
planning, organizing and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work
independently and with a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Control of documentation within the Directorate. Manages the mail register,
receiving, registering and disseminating of documents to the relevant people.
Ensure the processing of the telephone queries. Administer human resources
management functions. Prepare submissions on vacant posts and
appointment of staff. Arrange interview sessions. Maintain leave register and
ensure that all leave taken is recorded, checked and that leave application
forms are submitted to Human Resources for capturing on PERSAL.
Administer the Cluster’s budget. Compile expenditure reports. Assist in the
allocation of budget to activities in the operation plan. Ensure the maintenance
of filing system. File all unit documents, ensure safekeeping of information and
documentations. Ensure the arrangement of meetings, workshops, functions
45
and accommodation and travel for official. Placement of orders and administer
payments for workshops, catering, conferences and departmental
entertainment. Liaising with travelling agencies for enquiries. Ensure and
provide logistical support to the Directorate. Ensure adequate provision of
stationery for the Chief Directorate’s office. Coordinate the procurement of
stationery and computer consumables.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Britz Tel No: (012) 395 9681
POST 26/77 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: NDOH 60/2026
Chief-Directorate: HIV AIDS & STIs
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF4) and National Diploma (NQF 6) in Management /
Office Administration/Office Management/Public Management/Public
Administration/ Business Management/Business Administration as recognized
by SAQA. At least three (3) years’ experience in the field of Administration.
Knowledge of departmental procedures with regard to finances, budgeting and
procurement. Sound and in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts and
application of human resources as well as understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of Public finance
Management Act and Treasury Regulations and of LOGIS system and POPIA
Act. Good communication (verbal and written), problem solving, analytical,
planning, organizing, telephone etiquette, secretarial, basic financial and
budget management, and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to work
independently and with a team. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Control of documentation within the Chief Directorate. Prepare Chief
Directorate MANCO meetings. Manages the mail register, receiving,
registering and disseminating of documents to the relevant people. Ensure the
processing of the telephone queries. Administer human resources
management functions. Prepare submissions on vacant posts and
appointment of staff. Arrange interview sessions. Maintain leave register and
ensure that all leave taken is recorded, checked and that leave application
forms are submitted to Human Resources for capturing on PERSAL.
Administer the Directorate’s budget. Compile expenditure reports. Assist in the
allocation of budget to activities in the operation plan. Ensure the maintenance
of filing system. File all unit documents, ensure safekeeping of information and
documentations. Ensure the arrangement of meetings, workshops, functions
and accommodation and travel for official. Placement of orders and administer
payments for workshops, catering, conferences and departmental
entertainment. Liaising with travelling agencies for enquiries. Ensure and
provide logistical support to the Directorate. Ensure adequate provision of
stationery for the Chief Directorate’s office. Coordinate the procurement of
stationery and computer consumables.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G.C Shabangu Tel No: (012) 395 9157
POST 26/78 : PHYSICAL CONTROL SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: NDOH 65/2026
Directorate: Security Services.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF4) and National Diploma (NQF 6) qualification in
Security Management/ Policing or Security Risk Management as recognized
by SAQA. Grade A PSIRA certificates. At least three (3) years’ experience in
security services. Supervisory experience will be an advantage. Knowledge of
Minimum Information Security Standard and other departmental
policies/guidelines and procedural. Knowledge of Financial Management for
Managers and departmental computerized ordering system (LOGIS and
Doctrack System). Knowledge of general investigation functions and security
policy. Knowledge of contingency plan with regards to emergency. Knowledge
of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993, Criminal Procedure Act and
government legislation. Good communication (verbal and written), planning,
organization, decision making, people management, investigation,
presentation, interpersonal relations, conflict management and computer skills
(MS Office package). Ability to work independently and under pressure, as well
as in a team. A valid driver’s license.
46
DUTIES : Conduct preliminary investigation before registering a file/case docket. Gather,
verify, and coordinate information and documentation required for security
investigations. Coordinate and liaise with internal and external stakeholders.
Liaise with internal stakeholders on criminal cases, security breaches, losses,
fraud, corruption, and misconduct within the Department. Coordinate and
monitor operational and physical security. Maintain and safeguard confidential
security files, reports, and case dockets in accordance with approved security
protocols. Supervise the implementation of key control measures and ensure
compliance with departmental key control procedures. Manage resources and
audit queries. Creating of security registers for operational and physical
security for access control measures. Administration of human resources
matters and other tasks assigned by supervisor. Coordinate leave
management processes and maintain leave plans for security personnel.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Nghonyama Tel No: (012) 395 8746
POST 26/79 : SECRETARY REF NO: NDOH 63/2026
Directorate: Human Resources Information System
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 (NQF 4) with typing as a subject or any other training
course/qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily. NQF 5 in Office Management/Administration / Management
Assistant and/or Secretarial Diploma will be an advantage. Knowledge and
experience in general office and provisioning administration. Knowledge and
experience in Microsoft office and knowledge of departmental procedures
regarding finances and budgeting. Good telephone etiquette, computer
literacy, organisational and planning, basic financial administration, high level
of reliability and good communication (written and verbal) skills.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/ receptionist support service manager: Receives
telephones calls and refers calls to the correct role players if not meant for the
relevant manager. Provides a clerical support service to manager. Liaise with
travel agencies to make travel arrangements and checks arrangements when
the relevant documents are received. Remains up to update with regard to
prescripts/ policies and procedures applicable to his/ her work terrain. Studies
the relevant public service and departmental prescripts/ policies and other
documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Khanyile Tel No: (012) 395 8705
POST 26/80 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK (PRODUCTION) REF NO: NDOH 66/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, (plus competitive benefits)
CENTRE : Directorate: Supply chain Management. Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate (NQF4). National Diploma (NQF 6) qualification in Supply
Chain Management/Logistics or Finance will be an advantage. Experience of
at least one (1) year in working with payment of invoices will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of governments supplier payment processes. Good
communication (verbal and written) and computer skills (MS Office package).
Able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Preparation of documents for payment and loading them on ITS. Receive
invoices from the Supervisor, date stamp date received, verify correctness and
validity then load on ITS. Printing of approved invoices from ITS and ensuring
that the invoices are captured on LOGIS. Immediately respond to any
notifications that Line Functionaries confirmed delivery of goods or services
relating to payments allocated. Capture payments on LOGIS. Verify the
correctness of invoices approved against approvals and orders as well as bank
details. Handle payment enquiries. Provide timely feedback to suppliers and or
officials relating to the status of payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Jekwa Tel No: (012) 395 9332
47
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT: HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Western Coast TVET College)
APPLICATIONS : Please log on to www.westcoastcollege.co.za register and apply online
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Please click on the vacancies tab, fully complete the online Z83 application
form, and attach a recently updated detailed CV with (years of experience, the
start and the end date, the duties and three contactable references with email
addresses for the previous and current employers). Failure to sign, date and
not fully complete the Z83 form will result in your application not being
considered. Applicants must submit Z83 and CV only, all other documents /
proof will be submitted by shortlisted candidates. A separate application must
be submitted for each post for which you are applying. Late applications
(received after the closing date and time) will not be considered. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification
and other relevant documents to College Human Resources Management
Administration Unit on or before the day of the interview. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
employer is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment
decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department.
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender, and disability)
in the Department through the filling of the post(s) with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer reserves the right not
to make an appointment, to withdraw, and / or amend the adverts for the post(s)
and retains the right not to fill the posts as determined by the Director - General
or the delegated authority. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-
listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification;
criminal record and financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not
been invited for an interview within 60 days of the closing date should consider
their application unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/81 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: WCTVETC
1/3/0033
Contract: Permanent
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Service
CENTRE : Central Office, Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Matric / Grade 12 plus a recognised 4-years Degree (NQF Level 7) in Financial
Management. Minimum of three (3) to five (5) years’ experience in Financial
Management environment of which 3 years’ must be supervisory experience.
A valid driver’s licence compulsory. Proficient in Microsoft Office. Completed
articles will be advantageous. Knowledge and understanding of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA); CET Act; Treasury Regulations; Public Service
Regulations; Public Service Act and the National Student financial Aid Scheme
and related legislation. Knowledge of Financial Management Systems.
Strategic project management skills. Extensive knowledge of government
decision-making and delegation of powers processes. Excellent computer
software skills. Budget forecasting and management skills. Problem-solving
and decision-making skills. Analytical thinking and report writing skills. Time
management skills; Verbal and written communication skills. Presentation
skills; Administration skills, decision-making skills, problem-solving. Ability to
operate under pressure, highly motivated. Interpersonal skills. Supervisory
skills.
DUTIES : Coordinate, review, analyse and quality assure the financial information for
planning purposes. Oversee financial reporting for the college and support the
Deputy Principal: Finance with regards to the compilation of Annual Financial
48
Statements and Monthly Reports. Review monthly reconciliations and perform
financial reporting duties to internal and external parties. Support the Deputy
Principal: Finance with the compilation of quarterly reports to Council. Monitor
the internal controls in the Finance Division and ensure adherence to controls
throughout the college. Liaise with internal and external auditors and provide
access to documentation. Support the Deputy Principal: Finance in the
management of the units within the Finance Department. Assist the Deputy
Principal: Finance in ensuring self-sustainability, proper accounting records
and daily accounting discipline among staff. Ensure effective supervision of
staff for efficient financial accounting services. Develop, implement and monitor
work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Arosi Tel No: (022) 482 1143
POST 26/82 : HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
WCTVET 1/2/0006
Contract: Permanent
Re-advert, candidates that have previously applied can re- apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Service
CENTRE : Central Office: Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Matric /Grade 12 plus a recognised 3- years’ National Diploma in Human
Resources Management or a 4 - years’ Degree. A minimum of 5 years in
Human Resource Management environment of which three (03) years should
be management experience. A Post Degree qualification will be an added
advantage. PERSAL Certificates. Proof of computer literacy & qualifications in
MS Software applications such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint & Outlook. Proof
of current and previous work experience endorsed by Human Resource (Not
certificate of service). Valid Driver’s license. Knowledge of Public Services
legislations and policies related to Human Resource Management. Knowledge
and understanding of the TVET/ CET Administration. Knowledge and
understanding of the Higher Education sector. Knowledge of PERSAL and Job
Evaluation. In-depth knowledge of BCEA, LRA, EEA, COIDA, OHSA,
employee wellness and benefits. Excellent understanding of HR Risk and
Compliance Knowledge of CCMA/Labour Court/Bargaining processes.
DUTIES : Oversee Human Resource Management and Administration services - Render
conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on duty, Long service
recognition, overtime, relocation, pensions, transfers, allowances etc.);
Oversee the recruitment and selection processes as per departmental
delegation (advert, shortlisting, interviews, security vetting, competency test,
reference check, verification of qualifications) are coordinated within the
stipulated timelines); Management of HR Personnel records. Oversee Human
Resource Development services - Render Bursaries administration; Render
Internship and Work Integrated Learning (WIL); Conduct Induction; Coordinate
and facilitate the Training interventions. Develop and implement Workplace
Skills Plan (WSP); Administration of Performance Management and
Development Systems (PMDS) and Integrated Quality Management System
(IQMS). Coordinate and facilitate Organizational Development, services -
Coordinate the design, review and implementation of the college organizational
structure; Facilitate the development of Job Descriptions; Coordinate the Job
Evaluation of posts/jobs and submit to Head Office; Conduct work-study and
business process re-engineering; Facilitate change management and
organizational transformation services. Coordinate and facilitate Human
Resource Planning (HRP) and Employment Equity (EE) services - Coordinate,
develop, review, implement and monitor the college HR plan; Submit college
HR plan to Regional and Head Office for integration of the departmental plan;
Coordinate, develop, review, implement and monitor the college EE plan;
Submit college EE plan to Regional and Head Office for integration of the
departmental plan; Employment Equity (EE) data for submission to Regional
and Head Office; Ensure the implementation of HR and EE Plan. Provide
Employee Health and Wellness (EHW) services - Implement wellness
programmes and service for the college; Coordinate and manage HIV, AIDS,
STI and TB services; Coordinate and manage health productivity programmes;
Implement health and safety working environment programmes; Promotion of
sport activities to encourage physical fitness and healthy lifestyle. Develop and
implement Human Resource policies and manuals. Management of all Human,
Financial, and other resources of the unit. Advanced skill: Administrative;
49
Planning and organising; Financial management; Report writing,
Communication and interpersonal; Problem solving; Computer literacy;
Analytical; Client oriented; Project management; Team leadership; People
management. Labour Relations Management - Provide advisory services on
all employee relations policies, procedures, strategies, agreements, and
legislation. Conduct daily employee relations operations specifically in the
areas of disciplinary hearing, grievances, absenteeism, performance
improvement and collective bargaining; Partner with management in driving
fair labour relations within the business Represent the company in dispute
resolution process including mediation, arbitration and negotiation; Partner
with management in driving fair labour relations within the business Values/
attributes - Client service focus; Integrity; Committed; Proactive and loyal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Arosi Tel No: (022) 482 1143
50
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to
the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the
highest levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent
to the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts, on or before the
closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for Employment
Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. Where a valid Driver's
License and a Professional Driving Permit (PDP) is a requirement, this must
be indicated on the CV. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Shortlisted candidates will also be required to submit a copy of their ID
document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement), relevant
educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic Transcripts of
completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed. Furthermore,
applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required to submit the
evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA); for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity, will be subjected to an interview, various relevant
tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal,
citizenship, qualifications, and employment references including verification of
exit reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of
a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance
appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the
Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, ONLY. The
DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line
with its commitment to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-level
positions preference may be given to locally based candidates on grounds of
affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and
learners who have successfully completed their respective skills development
programmes. In the filling of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons
with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women. Persons falling
in these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred. The
DHA complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4
of 2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for recruitment
purposes, retained where required for audit, and safeguarded against
unauthorised disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an
application constitutes consent to such processing.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/83 : LOCAL OFFICE MANAGER REF NO: HRMC 54/26/1
SALARY : R1 101 468 - R1 297 476 per annum (Level 12), (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Free-State: Large Office: Bloemfontein
51
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Public Administration,
Operations, Business Management, Management, Administration, Law or
Social Science within these specified fields of study at NQF level 6 as
recognized by SAQA. 3 Years’ experience at a Junior Management / Assistant
Director level in Operations in a client or customer services environment.
Experience in Civic or Immigration Operations will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of South African Constitution. Knowledge and understanding of all
relevant public service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as
Government Structures. Excellent abilities and experience in project
management, project optimization and use of online systems. Knowledge of
National Treasury Regulations and Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of Human Resources Regulatory Framework and Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Knowledge of South African Constitution. Knowledge of
workflow and capacity planning. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles.
Knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS), Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) and Promotion of Access to Information Act
(PAIA). A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Strong Management and Leadership
capability. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and customer focus.
People management and empowerment. Financial Management. Program and
project management. Change management. Ability to instil appropriate
processes and systems, as well as enabling technology, to support the
Department in efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support
digital transformation. Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as
report writing and presentation skills. Problem-solving and analysis. Policy
interpretation. Risk Management. Influencing, networking, conflict
management and negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information Management.
Decision making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time
management. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the overall operations and performance of the Office
against agreed service delivery standards. Provide advice and guidance on
operations of the Department at a Local Office level. Manage the provision of
safe and secure enabling documents as it relates to citizenship, births,
marriages, death, travel documents and passports. Ensure delivery against the
mandates derived from the Government’s Programme of Action (POA). Ensure
effective management and oversight of the Local Office’s Immigration
Inspectorate activities. Foster effective partnerships with all stakeholders and
represent the Office at various forums. Ensure the effective implementation of
strategic objectives and innovation (digital transformation and case
management solutions) in the Local Office. Coordinate and monitor delivery of
the Local Office’s operational plan against agreed timeframes and objectives.
Implement governance processes, frameworks, policies, procedures and
manage risks. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Local Office. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms V Molefe Tel No: (051) 430 0378
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows: Free State: Physical Address: 41 Charlotte
Maxeke Street, Bloemfontein, 9301.
POST 26/84 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IMMIGRATION SERVICES INSPECTORATE (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 - R713 535 per annum (Level 10), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Large Office: Uthungulu Ref No: HRMC 54/26/2a (X1 Post)
Limpopo: Large Office: Thohoyandou Ref No: HRMC 54/26/2b (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Public Management, Public
Administration, LLB, Policing, Criminology, Forensics, Paralegal, Criminal
Justice at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’
supervisory experience in a law enforcement, Legal or Security environment is
required. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge
of Refugee Act and Immigration Act. Knowledge and understanding of all Acts
administered by the Department. Knowledge and understanding of Criminal
Prosecution Act. Knowledge of International treaties. Knowledge of the South
African Constitution. Knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework.
52
A valid driver’s license (Code B/C1/C/ EC1). Valid Public Driver Permit (PDP).
Willingness to travel outside the borders and work extended hours. Required
skills and competencies: Liaison and interpersonal skills. Problem Solving
Skills. Customer orientation. Planning and Organising. Strong Analytical Skills.
Written and verbal communication. Diplomacy. Accountability. Conflict
management and resolution. Analytical skills. Communication Skills. Computer
Literacy. Patriotism, Honesty, Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage Inspectorate operations management within the
Office/district. Provide advice and recommendation on immigration
transgression cases to the office/region/district. Represent the department on
security cluster forums. Ensure effective investigations of transgressions of the
DHA legislation. Review quality management (investigation) reports and take
corrective action where required and provide necessary support and
leadership to immigration officials under his/her chain of command. Develop
quality assurance and data quality strategies and actions. Monitor statistics of
inspections/investigations within the office/district/Region. Analyse trends and
communicate the information to the Office Manager. Advise the office manager,
District Manager Operations and Provincial Manager on immigration matters.
Liaise with Central law enforcement regarding priority and high profile cases,
Liaise and provide support to Counter Corruption on cases that involve their
mandate and immigration matters. Liaise with law enforcement agencies and
other relevant stakeholders to ensure smooth and effective processing of
cases identified in the Region Assistant Director: Immigration Services
Inspectorate Page 3 of 8. Liaise with deportation unit to effect deportations and
oversee the effective, humane and speedy deportation of cases from the
office/district/region. Coordinate information and assist with regards to the
investigation of issuing of temporary residence permits/permanent residence
permits. Oversee Court cases involving the office/district/region. Provide
effective oversight and management of Immigration functions within the
office/district/region and Provide investigative support to Civic services.
Develop and implementation of policies, procedures, directives, acts and
regulations. Ensure effective risk and compliance management. Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
Limpopo: Mr J Kgole Tel No: (015) 287 2802
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:
KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg 3209
Limpopo: Physical Address: 89 Biccard Street, Polokwane, 0699
POST 26/85 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PHOTO CAPTURING REF NO: HRMC 54/26/3
Directorate: Fingerprint Verification
SALARY : R605 742 - R713 535 per annum (Level 10), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Management, Administration, Business Management, Administration or Social
Science within these specified of study at an NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA. 3 years’ supervisory experience. Experience in Civic and Immigration
Services. Experience in coordination of information gathering citizenship
processes. Knowledge of Workflow planning and capacity planning.
Knowledge of all Civic Services Regulations. Basic knowledge of the
Immigration Act and Refugee Act. Extensive knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge of the South
African Constitution. Understanding of departmental legislation and Human
Resources legislation and prescripts. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act. Willingness to
work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Capability and
Leadership. People management and empowerment. Expenditure
Management. Project Management. Time Management. Accountability.
Business Continuity. Decision Making. Business Analysis. Strong
Communication. Interpersonal Skills. Conceptual Thinking Ability. Strong
Analytical Skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Research skills. Strong
53
problem solving. Proficiency in business process modelling. Presentation
skills. Problem solving and analysis. Business report writing. Influencing and
networking. Planning and organizing. Interpersonal skills. Technical Skills:
Commercial Skills. Negotiation Skills. Document management skills. Computer
and digital literacy skills. Decision Making skills. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity
and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage daily operation of the photo capturing Unit. Coordinate
the fingerprint capturing and processing of applications. Conduct on incoming
and finalised work of senior fingerprint officers and fingerprint officers. Manage
the processing of photographs, fingerprints and special functions in
accordance with DHA guidelines and requirements. Manage effective activities
within Preparations, HANIS and Special Tasks Sections. Monitor daily
performance and take corrective action or escalate in accordance with DHA
guidelines. Prepare monthly reports on the status and progress of various
projects within the Section. Testify in a court of law on special cases regarding
fingerprint and identification matters. Ensure that adequate training is provided
to all fingerprint personnel. Ensure that all exceptional cases are investigated
and resolved timeously. Commission the prepared Section 212 declarations for
court cases. Participate in the process of developing training manuals for the
fingerprint occupational class. Conduct feasibility study on best practices on
improvement of services with regard to fingerprint related activities. Build and
maintain relationship with various stakeholders (Internal and External).
Participate in the formulation of policies concerning the pre-processing of
Identity Documents. Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the
relevant practices. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola Tel No: (012) 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 26/86 : CONTROL IMMIGRATION OFFICER: INSPECTORATE REF NO: HRMC
54/26/4
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary package)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Large Office: Ethekwini
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification in Law, Public Management, Public Administration, Policing,
Criminology, Forensics or Criminal Justice at NQF level 6 as recognized by
SAQA. 2 Years’ experience in a law enforcement environment. Knowledge of
the Immigration Act, Refugees Act, Criminal Procedure Act, and relevant
Regulations. Knowledge of International treaties. Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative
Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. A valid drivers’ license (Code
C1) or C (Code 10). Valid Public Driver Permit (PDP). Willingness to travel
including outside of the borders of South Africa. Work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Service delivery innovation. Client
orientation and customer focus. Excellent interpersonal skills. Problem solving
and conflict management. Analytical skills. Planning, organising and time
management. Good written and verbal communication skills. Report writing.
Computer literacy. Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Provide effective law enforcement, and monitoring of
the investigation of illegal foreigners according to the Immigration Act No 13 of
2002. Supervise, administrate and enforce the detection, tracing, arrest and
detention of illegal foreigners within the Country. Ensure effective investigation
of cases involving smuggling of migrants, human trafficking and illegal mass
production of enabling documents such as birth certificates, travel documents,
permits, Visas, Identity documents and theft of face value documents. Assist in
dealing with illegal migration facilitated by corruption and other high-profile
cases. Appear and testify in court proceedings (both criminal and civil), as well
as disciplinary enquiries on behalf of the Department. Monitor the process of
the deportation of illegal foreigners out of the Country to their country of origin.
Administrate and implement inspections in loco. Assist in the promotion of a
climate in the Country that discourages illegal migration and ensures that illegal
foreigners depart the Country either through deportation or voluntarily, in line
54
with applicable Acts and Regulations. Monitor the influx of foreigners residing
in the Country and ensure that they have legal documentation. Timeously liaise
with all law enforcement agencies and other relevant institutions on the
verification of the identity of foreigners who contravene the provisions of
applicable Legislation. Administrate the arrest and deportation of illegal
foreigners who are unwilling to leave the Country voluntarily, in a lawful manner.
Assist in crime combatting operations with other law enforcement agencies.
Participate in security cluster forums and case flow management meetings.
Prepare reports and statistics as directed. Operate, maintain and safeguard
the assigned heavy-duty vehicle as well as designated tools of trade, in
accordance with relevant Departmental policy frameworks. Ensure the
implementation of Departmental policies and procedures. Maintain
relationships with various stakeholders (Internal and External). Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all regulatory
requirements.
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:-KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church
Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
POST 26/87 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: HRMC 54/26/5
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Provincial Manager’s Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Office Management and Technology,
Business Management, Administration Management or a related field at NQF
Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience as an
Administrative Officer/ Chief Administration Clerk is required. Experience in the
administration of office budgets is required. Knowledge of National Treasury
Regulations. Extensive knowledge of various filing systems. Knowledge of the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge and Understanding of
departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management processes
and procedures. Knowledge of the Human Resource Regulatory Framework.
A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Problem Solving. Planning and organising.
Planning and organising. Financial Administration. Analytical thinking. Verbal
and Written Communication. Interpersonal. Customer Focus. Attention to
Detail. Clerical and Administration. Multi-Tasking. Results and Achievement
focus. Teamwork. Time Management. Computer literacy. Patriotic, Honesty,
Integrity and Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Provide administrative support in the unit. Perform general
administrative activities in support of the unit (travel, venues and
accommodation arrangements). Ensure the administration of office
correspondence, documents and reports (Compile letters, memorandums,
submissions, reports and minutes for the unit). Ensure the maintenance of
filling system for the unit. Compile financial and administration reports and
documents. Ensure compilation of budget and cash flow projections. Convene
and attend meetings and act as secretary during meetings. Ensure accurate
Completion of subsistence claims. Keep track of all incoming work and ensure
that all deadlines are met. Liaise with all stakeholders relevant to the unit.
Ensure the flow of information and documents in the unit. Ensure that forms
and documents related to claims, payments, invoices and consultant fees
relevant to the unit are processed. Provide office administration services in the
functional unit. Ensure innovation and service delivery within the Unit. Ensure
the implementation of effective risk and compliance management practices.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za KwaZulu-Natal: Physical
address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
55
POST 26/88 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE REF NO: HRMC 54/26/6
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal: Large Office: Uthungulu
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Financial Administration or related field at
NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in
Administrative Officer/ Chief Administration Clerk is required. Experience in
administration of office budget is required. Knowledge of National Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Extensive knowledge of various filing systems. Knowledge and Understanding
of departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management process and
procedures. Knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework. A valid
drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills
and competencies: Planning and organizing. Analytical thinking. Problem
Solving. Financial Administration. Verbal and Written Communication. Planning
and Skills. Interpersonal. Customer Focus. Attention to Detail. Clerical and
Administration. Multi Tasking. Results and Achievement focus. Teamwork.
Time Management. Computer literacy. Patriotic, Honesty, Integrity and
Accountability.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate and monitor the budget and administrative matters.
Ensure compliance to policies and procedures for Budget management and
control. Monitor implementation of expenditure and commitments against
voted funds. Identify, recover and reporting all unauthorized, irregular and
fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Coordinate and submit provincial inputs on
Estimates of National Expenditure (ENE). Administer provincial adjustment
Estimates including submissions regarding roll over funds, as well as other
correspondence. Participate in budget planning as well as preparation of
budget. Participate in the compilation of the Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework and projections in the province. Maintain the Department Chart of
Accounts at province. Monitor expenditure trends and reconciliation thereof
against the budget and cash flow projections. Co-ordinate projections of
anticipated expenditure & revenue. Facilitate the year end processes regarding
budgetary management. Monitor revenue management processes. Monitor
asset management in the Province. Ensure the implementation of effective risk
and compliance management practices. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za KwaZulu-Natal: Physical
address: 181 Church Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
POST 26/89 : IMMIGRATION OFFICER: INSPECTORATE (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 - R330 162 per annum (Level 06), (a basic salary)
CENTRE : Kwa-Zulu Natal: Medium Office: Eshowe Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7a (X1 Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Large Office: Ethekwini Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7b (X3 Posts)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Medium Office: Ingwavuma Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7c (X1 Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Medium Office: Ixopo Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7d (X1 Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Large Office: Ugu Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7e (X1 Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Large Office: Umgungundlovu Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7f (X1
Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Large Office: Pongola Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7g (X1 Post)
Kwa-Zulu Natal: Large Office: Paulpietersburg Ref No: HRMC 54/26/7h (X1
Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Public Management, Public
Administration, Policing Criminology, Forensics or Criminal Justice at NQF
level 6 as recognised by SAQA is required. Basic understanding of the
Refugees Act and Immigration Act. Basic understanding of South African
Constitution. Basic understanding the Immigration Act. Basic understanding
Public Service Regulatory Framework. A valid driver’s license (Code B/C1/C/
EC1). Valid Public Driver Permit (PDP). Willingness to travel outside the
borders and work extended hours Required skills and competencies: Liaison
and interpersonal skills. Problem Solving Skills. Customer orientation. Planning
56
and Organising. Strong Analytical Skills. Computer Literacy. Written and verbal
communication. Diplomacy. Patriotic, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Effective enforcement of the Immigration Act 13 of 2002 as
amended and other Legislation. Detect, trace, detain and prosecute illegal
foreigners within the country. Process the deportation of illegal foreigners out
of the country to their country of origin. Provide support on law enforcement
investigations and anti-corruption cases. Conduct inspections in loco with or
without warrant as allowed by law. Conduct investigations on any
transgressions of the Immigration Act, 2002, the Refugee Act, 1998 or other
departmental legislation. Enable prosecutions of transgressions of
departmental legislation and the Criminal Procedure Act. Issue notices to
appear in front of the Director–General to transgressors. Process and present
evidence in court and Departmental cases. Issue admission of guilt to fines to
transgressors. Conduct interviews and investigation of foreigners who are
suspected to be illegal in the transgressors. Process the application and the
extensions of detention warrants. Monitor the records of all cases. Monitor the
influx of foreigners residing in the country with no legal documentation.
Implement incidental matters ensure that the identity of illegal foreigner who
are arrested, detained or convicted. Conduct arrests and deporting of illegal
foreigners who are unwilling to leave the country voluntarily. Participate in
training session that will enable advanced knowledge and understanding in
detecting illegal foreigners in line with Immigration Act.No13 of 2002 as
amended and enforcing departmental legislation. Ensure compliance with the
terms and conditions of permits. Participate in the processing of illegal
foreigners for deportation to their country of origin. Participate in law
enforcement operations with other security cluster agencies. Provide expert
evidence and statement to support law enforcement and crime combatting
investigation efforts that require departmental evidence. Participate in regular
training and personal development to be able to undertake the tasks as an
effective law enforcement peace office. Conduct deportation processes and
keep records of foreigners (legal and illegal) in the country. Safe keep, maintain
and manage state properties and assets. Implement policies and procedures
in line with the approved Framework. Monitor individual resources (Physical).
ENQUIRIES : KwaZulu-Natal: Ms N Ngema Tel No: (033) 845 5003
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or sent to the correct
address specified as follows:-KwaZulu-Natal: Physical address: 181 Church
Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3209.
57
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2026
NOTE : Applicants are invited to submit applications, quoting the relevant reference
number to the link and or address indicated in each specific advertisement.
Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed
Application for Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021,
obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za), citing the correct post number and job title; a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date (dd/mm/yy), job title, detailed
duties performed and exit reason for each employment period to be
considered, as well as the details of three contactable employment references
and copies of educational qualifications. Applicants who possess foreign
qualification(s), are furthermore required to submit the evaluated results of
such qualifications as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA).All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. These assessments are
aimed at assessing candidate’s professional and technical competency against
the job requirements and duties, general job fit, integrity and digital literacy). All
shortlisted candidates for SMS positions will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) candidates will undergo psychometric assessment to
assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural, emotional intelligence and integrity.
All suitable candidates will be subjected to mandatory pre-employment
screening/ suitability checks/ verification (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, employment pending disciplinary action and professional
registration. Suitable candidates for Senior Management Service positions will
also be required to successfully complete the online Nyukela Pre-entry
Certificate to Senior Management Services course, which can be accessed via:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates wishing to be considered for appointment, are encouraged to enrol
for the course as soon as possible. Due to high volumes anticipated,
communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates. The Department
reserves the right not to make an appointment. The Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development (DOJ&CD) seeks to appoint exceptional, ethical
and visionary leaders to join its executive leadership team in advancing
constitutional democracy. Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. The Department is committed to providing equal opportunities
and affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote
representativity in terms of (race, gender, and disability).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/90 : DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: 26/18/DG
(5 Year Fixed Term Contract)
SALARY : R2 446 749 – R2 756 241 per annum (Level 16), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package), plus 10% non-pensionable allowance payable to Head of
Departments (HoDs) for a five (5) year term.
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria State
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 8 qualification recognized by SAQA in Law, Public
Administration, Public Management, Business Administration or a related field.
Admission as an Attorney or Advocate will be an added advantage. A minimum
of ten (10) years' experience at senior managerial level, of which a substantial
portion must have been gained at executive leadership level within a large,
complex organization. Proven experience in organizational transformation,
strategic planning, institutional performance, governance, financial
management, policy development and stakeholder management is essential.
Executive leadership experience within the Public Service will serve as a
distinct advantage. Extensive knowledge of constitutional and administrative
law; criminal law; labour law; international law; legislative drafting; justice
administration; litigation and State legal services; constitutional democracy;
human rights; public administration; organizational development; information
and communication technology; public sector governance; the Public Service
58
Act; Public Service Regulations; Public Finance Management Act; Treasury
Regulations; Government planning frameworks; and financial management
within the Public Service. Skills and Competencies: Exceptional strategic
leadership and executive management capability, with the ability to provide
strategic direction and translate Government priorities into measurable
organizational outcomes. Demonstrated capability in programme and project
management, financial management, organizational transformation and
change management, knowledge management, service delivery innovation,
governance and organizational performance. Strong analytical, strategic
thinking and problem-solving capability. Excellent people management,
communication, stakeholder management and customer service orientation.
Ability to build strategic partnerships, lead multidisciplinary executive teams,
manage organizational risk and drive organizational performance. High levels
of professionalism, ethical leadership, innovation, accountability and
commitment to public service values.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and overall management of the Department to
ensure the effective administration of justice and implementation of its
constitutional and legislative mandate. Oversee the development, reform and
implementation of legislation, legal services and policies that promote
constitutional democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Provide strategic
oversight of court administration services, including lower court administration,
the Integrated Criminal Justice System and programmes supporting vulnerable
groups. Oversee the administration of Master's Services and Family Law
Services, including deceased estates, trusts, insolvencies, guardianship
administration and family advocate services. Direct the provision of State legal
advisory and litigation services on behalf of Government and organs of State.
Ensure effective financial management, strategic planning, governance,
enterprise risk management, internal audit, organizational performance and
transformation and regulatory compliance. Strengthen intergovernmental
relations, cluster coordination, entity oversight and strategic partnerships, and
oversee programmes that advance constitutional values and social justice.
Serve as principal adviser to the Executive Authority on matters relating to the
Department's mandate and strategic direction.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Rhulani Ngwenya at 083 269 4716
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 26/91 : SOLICITOR-GENERAL REF NO: 26/20/SG
(5 Year Fixed Term Contract)
SALARY : R2 446 749 – R2 756 241 per annum (Level 16), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria State
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 8 in Law or as recognised by SAQA. Admission as An Advocate
or Attorney with right of appearance in the High Court of South Africa is
essential. A minimum of ten (10) years' experience at senior managerial level.
Extensive experience in Litigation and previous experience of litigating high-
profile cases will be an added advantage. Comprehensive knowledge of the
State Attorney Act, the State Attorney Amendment Act, the State Liability Act,
the Public Finance Management Act, the Public Service Act and Regulations,
applicable Treasury Regulations and Departmental prescripts. Extensive
knowledge of litigation management, State legal services, organisational and
government strategy, financial management, governance, organisational
change, public administration and public sector regulatory frameworks. Sound
understanding of Government priorities, strategic planning, organisational
leadership and digital litigation management systems. Skills and
Competencies: Exceptional strategic capability and leadership with the ability
to develop and implement organisational strategies, provide strategic direction
and inspire high performance. Demonstrated capability in programme and
project management, financial management, governance, organisational
transformation and change management. Strong knowledge management,
service delivery innovation, analytical thinking and problem-solving capability.
Excellent people management, stakeholder engagement, client orientation and
communication skills, with the ability to influence, negotiate and build strategic
59
partnerships across government and the legal profession. Demonstrated
honesty, integrity, professionalism and commitment to ethical leadership and
sound public administration. High levels of professionalism, ethical leadership,
innovation, accountability and commitment to public service values.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership, governance oversight and national coordination
of litigation involving the State. Oversee and coordinate civil litigation across
all State Attorney Offices and establish national litigation strategies,
governance frameworks, norms and standards to ensure consistent and
effective legal representation of the State. Oversee the management of
contingent liabilities and financial risks in accordance with the State Liability
Act through the implementation of litigation risk management systems,
expenditure control measures and strategies to reduce litigation costs. Monitor
compliance with court orders and the execution of judgments by organs of
State, establish mechanisms to monitor implementation, and escalate systemic
non-compliance where necessary. Lead the development of national litigation
policies, norms, directives and legal reform initiatives, provide strategic
oversight on constitutional and precedent-setting litigation, and support legal
research and international legal cooperation. Promote sound governance,
ethical conduct, transparency and consequence management through
compliance monitoring, investigation of litigation failures and implementation of
corrective measures. Drive the transformation and professionalization of
litigation services by promoting equitable briefing patterns, strengthening the
capacity of State Attorney Offices, supporting the development of emerging
legal practitioners and implementing professional standards and quality
assurance systems. Department's Strategic Plan, ensuring sound financial and
human resource management, implementing knowledge management and
digital litigation systems, and monitoring organizational performance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Rhulani Ngwenya at 083 269 4716
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 26/92 : CHIEF STATE LAW ADVISER REF NO: 26/23/OCSLA
SALARY : R1 885 710 – R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria State
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 8 in Law or as recognised by SAQA. Admission as an Advocate
or Attorney in the High Court of South Africa is essential. Extensive knowledge
of Bills and legislation, legislative drafting and certification processes, legal
advisory services, public and international law, public administration,
government decision-making processes, and the statutory and regulatory
framework governing the Public Service, including the Public Service Act,
Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and related prescripts.
Sound understanding of Government priorities, organizational governance,
strategic planning and professional legal ethics. Skills and Competencies:
Exceptional strategic capability and leadership with the ability to provide
strategic direction, develop legal policy and lead a specialized legal advisory
environment. Demonstrated capability in programme and project management,
financial management, organizational transformation, change management,
knowledge management and service delivery innovation. Strong analytical,
planning and problem-solving capability, with excellent people management,
stakeholder engagement, communication and client orientation skills. Proven
ability to build strategic partnerships, manage complex legal matters, influence
decision-making and lead multidisciplinary professional teams. High levels of
professionalism, ethical leadership, accountability and commitment to the
values and principles of the Public Service.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and oversight of the certification and drafting of
Bills, including the provision of preliminary legal opinions, certification of
legislation and legal advisory support throughout the parliamentary process.
Oversee the scrutiny, drafting and certification of subordinate legislation and
provide authoritative legal opinions and advisory services to Government
departments and other organs of state. Direct the scrutiny of international
agreements to ensure consistency with the Constitution and domestic law and
oversee the provision of legal advice relating to international legal obligations.
60
Lead the strategic management and governance of the Office of the Chief State
Law Adviser through effective strategic planning, operational performance
monitoring, risk management, audit compliance, financial management and
resource utilization. Oversee the translation and editing of legislation and other
legal documents into the official languages to support legislative accessibility
and constitutional compliance. Provide strategic legal opinions on contracts,
legal documents, settlements and disputes referred by Government
departments and organs of state. Ensure sound governance, people
management, financial stewardship, asset management, organizational
performance and compliance with all statutory and regulatory prescripts within
the Office of the Chief State Law Adviser.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Duduzile Magampa at 060 972 1178
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 26/93 : CHIEF MASTER REF NO: 26/19/MFS
SALARY : R1 885 710 – R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria State
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 8 qualification recognised by SAQA in Financial Management,
Business Management Law or a related field, recognised by SAQA. Admission
as a Chartered Accountant will be an added advantage. A minimum of eight (8)
years' experience at senior management level, with extensive expertise in the
management of deceased estates, insolvency, trusts or regulatory governance.
Extensive experience in managing large scale funds will be an added
advantage. Extensive knowledge of South African private and constitutional
law, legislation governing Masters' Services, fiduciary regulation, estate
administration, family law, international child abduction frameworks, public
sector governance, the Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations, and the statutory framework governing the administration of
deceased estates, trusts, guardianship and related legal processes. Skills and
Competencies: Exceptional strategic capability and leadership with the ability
to provide national strategic direction, drive organisational performance and
lead complex regulatory environments. Demonstrated capability in programme
and project management, financial management, organisational
transformation, change management, knowledge management and service
delivery innovation. Strong analytical, planning and problem-solving capability,
with excellent stakeholder engagement, communication, client orientation and
relationship management skills. Proven ability to lead multidisciplinary teams,
build strategic partnerships and promote sound governance, accountability and
ethical leadership. High levels of professionalism, ethical leadership,
innovation, accountability and commitment to public service values.
DUTIES : Provide strategic national regulatory oversight of all Masters' Offices to ensure
the lawful, efficient and uniform administration of statutory functions across the
Republic. Lead the regulatory oversight of deceased estate administration,
insolvent estate administration, trust registration and supervision, Guardian's
Fund administration, curatorship’s and related fiduciary services, including the
development of national standards, directives, compliance frameworks and
regulatory interventions. Provide strategic oversight of governance, investment
management and statutory compliance relating to the Guardian's Fund to
safeguard the interests of beneficiaries. Lead policy development, legal
research and legislative reform to strengthen governance and modernise
Masters' Services. Oversee the administration of Family Advocate Services
and the implementation of South Africa's obligations relating to international
child abduction and related family law services. Build and maintain strategic
partnerships with the Executive, Judiciary, legal profession, financial
institutions and other stakeholders to strengthen governance, improve service
delivery and enhance public confidence. Provide strategic leadership for the
Branch through effective financial management, organisational performance,
human resource management, knowledge management, digital enablement,
governance, risk management and compliance in support of the Department's
constitutional mandate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Duduzile Magampa at 060 972 1178
61
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 26/94 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
SUPPORT REF NO: 26/21/IDS
SALARY : R1 885 710 – R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria State
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 8 qualification as recognised by SAQA, in Public Administration,
Public Management, Administration, Law, Governance, Social Sciences or a
related field. 8 years' experience at Senior Management level in public
administration within a large, complex organisation. Extensive knowledge of
the Public Finance Management Act, the Public Service legislative and
governance framework, organisational performance management, strategic
planning, institutional governance, human resource management and public
administration. Sound understanding of Government priorities, organisational
development, policy coordination, justice sector governance and executive
management within the Public Service. Skills and Competencies: Exceptional
strategic capability and leadership with the ability to provide organisational
direction, develop and implement strategies and inspire high performance.
Demonstrated capability in programme and project management, financial
management, organisational transformation and change management,
knowledge management, service delivery innovation and organisational
performance improvement. Strong analytical, planning and problem-solving
capability. Excellent people management, stakeholder engagement,
communication and client orientation skills, with the ability to build collaborative
partnerships and influence strategic outcomes. High levels of professionalism,
ethical leadership, innovation, accountability and commitment to public service
values.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership for justice policy coordination, entity oversight and
Justice Cluster governance to strengthen institutional governance, integrated
decision-making and the implementation of departmental strategic priorities.
Lead justice education, professional development, research, innovation and
knowledge management programmes to strengthen institutional capability and
organisational performance. Direct strategic planning, organisational
performance management, service delivery improvement, operational
intelligence and integrated performance monitoring systems to support
evidence-based planning, accountability and continuous organisational
improvement. Lead public education, strategic communication, media
relations, stakeholder engagement and reputation management initiatives to
promote public confidence, improve access to justice and strengthen the
Department's public profile. Provide strategic leadership for legal services,
legal advisory services, litigation management, contract management,
statutory legal processes and legal governance to mitigate legal risks and
safeguard the Department's interests. Ensure sound strategic, financial,
human resource, asset and performance management, promote compliance
with legislative and regulatory prescripts, and build a capable, ethical and high-
performing Branch that supports the Department's constitutional mandate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Duduzile Magampa at 060 972 1178
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 26/95 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY SERVICES REF NO: 26/22/ICT
SALARY : R1 885 710 – R2 124 237 per annum (Level 15), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria State
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 8 qualification recognised by SAQA in Information Technology,
Computer Science, Information Systems, Informatics, Engineering, Business
62
Information Systems or a related ICT field. A minimum of eight (8) years'
experience at Senior Management level in an ICT environment. Extensive
knowledge of information and communication technology governance, ICT
strategy development, enterprise architecture, information security, digital
transformation, ICT operations, applications development, infrastructure
management, systems integration, ICT service management, project and
programme management, business continuity, financial management, public
sector governance, the Public Finance Management Act, the Public Service
legislative framework and Government ICT policies and standards. Skills and
Competencies: Exceptional strategic capability and leadership with the ability
to develop and implement enterprise ICT strategies that support organisational
priorities. Demonstrated capability in programme and project management,
financial management, organisational transformation, change management,
knowledge management and service delivery innovation. Strong analytical,
planning and problem-solving capability, with excellent people management,
stakeholder engagement, communication and client orientation skills. Proven
ability to lead large-scale ICT modernisation initiatives, manage
multidisciplinary technical teams, establish strategic partnerships and drive
continuous organisational improvement. High levels of professionalism, ethical
leadership, innovation, accountability and commitment to public service values.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership for the development and implementation of the
Department's ICT strategy and digital transformation programme to support
organisational objectives and service delivery. Lead ICT governance,
enterprise architecture and ICT planning to ensure alignment between
business requirements and technology solutions. Oversee ICT operations,
infrastructure, networks, applications, information management and customer
support services to ensure secure, reliable and efficient ICT service delivery.
Direct the development, acquisition, implementation and maintenance of ICT
systems and digital platforms that improve organisational performance and
enhance access to justice services. Provide strategic leadership for information
security, cybersecurity, ICT risk management, business continuity and disaster
recovery to safeguard the Department's information assets and digital
environment. Establish effective ICT governance, project management,
procurement and contract management frameworks to ensure compliance with
legislative and regulatory requirements. Ensure sound financial management,
performance management, governance, human resource development and
the effective utilisation of resources within the Branch
ENQUIRIES : Ms Duduzile Magampa at 060 972 1178
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 26/96 : STATE ATTORNEY (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 554 696 – R1 858 821 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : East London Ref No: 139/26/EC
Pretoria Ref No: 2026/67/GP
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Law / LLB as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 6 years’ experience at a senior managerial level; Admission as an Attorney;
Administrative experience. Skills and competencies: Communication skills
(written and verbal); Computer literacy; Technical expertise; Strategic
leadership capability; Analytical thinking, problem solving and decision making;
Entrepreneurial and business capability; Project management; Customer
service orientation; People development and empowerment; Participative
leadership and teamwork; Ability to work under pressure; Research and
development expertise; Strategic change management; Honesty and integrity;
Interpersonal relations and conflict management.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the development and implementation of the strategic
and annual performance plans; Manage and facilitate the provision of
representation of government on all legal and litigation matters including debt
collection; Manage and facilitate the provision of conveyancing and notarial
services; Manage and facilitate drafting and provision of legal opinions and
contracts; Comply with all standards and directives by the Solicitor-General;
Provide effective people management.
63
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Ramohlale Tel No: (012) 406 4879 /Cell: +27 71 761 5052
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower.
NOTE : A separate application must be submitted for each position quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 26/97 : MASTER OF THE HIGH COURT (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 317 384 – R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : Master of The High Court, Pretoria Ref No: 2026/61/GP (X1 Post)
: Master of The High Court, Bloemfontein Ref No: 25/19/FS (X1 Post)
Master of The High Court, Johannesburg Ref No: 2026/19/GP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Law / LLB or any legal equivalent qualification
as recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience at middle/senior
managerial level; Admittance as an Advocate / Attorney with right of
appearance at the High Court; Knowledge of the Foundations of South African
law, Administration of Estates Act, Mental Health Act, Insolvency Act,
Companies Act, Close Corporations Act, Trust Property Control Act and other
relevant legislations; South African family law, constitutional law, intellectual
property, evidence and African Customary Law. Skills and Competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership; Project and programme management;
Financial Management; Change management; Knowledge management;
Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Diversity management; Client Orientation
and Customer Focus; Good communication skills (verbal and written);
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the implementation of Guardian’s Fund; Manage and
monitor the implementation of Deceased Estate; Manage the administration of
Curatorship and registration of Trust; Manage the administration of
Insolvencies; Monitor and manage service points operations; Manage human,
financial and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms N Dywili at (073) 775 0709
Gauteng: Ms T Maphoto Tel No: (011) 332 9000 or Ms P Raadt Tel No: (011)
332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower.
NOTE : A separate application must be submitted for each position quoting the relevant
reference number.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/98 : SENIOR FAMILY ADVOCATE (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 242 915 – R1 934 208 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD rules.
CENTRE : Family Advocate: Pretoria Ref No: 2026/28 GP (X1 Post)
Family Advocate: East London Ref No: 132/26/EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Law / LLB as recognized by SAQA A minimum
of eight (8) years appropriate post qualification litigation experience; Admitted
as an Advocate; The right of appearance in the High Court of South Africa; A
valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Good communication (written
and verbal) skills; Research, investigation, presentation, monitoring and
evaluation; Attention to detail; Diversity Management; Dispute and Conflict
resolution skills; Operational and People management; Financial
management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Execute the mandate of the Office of the Family Advocate; Perform all functions
and duties of the Senior Family Advocate (Head of Office) in accordance with
relevant legislation; Continuous improvement in the organisational
performance of the office and its satellites; Management of performance
information; Manage and ensure effective and efficient service delivery at the
various service points within the respective jurisdiction (Head of Office),
64
Performance Management, conduct complex enquiries, training, mentoring
and coaching of all occupational classes in the Office; Perform all functions of
the implementation of Risk Management Plan; Ensure audit compliance;
Reporting to the Principal Family Advocate.
ENQUIRIES : Adv Nthabiseng Thokoane Tel No: (012) 357 8021
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower.
NOTE : A separate application must be submitted for each position quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 26/99 : SENIOR ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP5-LP6) (X18 POSTS)
SALARY : R655 854 – R1 508 337 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD rules.
CENTRE : State Attorney, Johannesburg Ref No: 2026/33/GP (X2 Posts)
State Attorney, Bloemfontein Ref No: 26/30 /FS (X2 Posts)
State Attorney, Pretoria Ref No: 2026/28/GP (X3 Posts)
State Attorney, Mahikeng, Ref No: 26/VA46/NW (X1 Post)
State Attorney, Kimberley, Ref No: 26/VA46/NC (X1 Post)
State Attorney, Cape Town Ref No: 49/2026/WC (X8 Posts)
State Attorney, Durban Ref No: 26/30/KZN (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Law / LLB as recognized by SAQA. A minimum
of four (4) years appropriate post-qualification legal/litigation experience;
Admittance as an Attorney; An in-depth, thorough knowledge of legal practice,
office management, accounting systems and trust accounts; Knowledge of the
government prescripts and transformation objective as well as the Constitution
of South Africa; Conveyancing experience will be an added advantage; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research
and drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow management; Communication skills
(written and verbal); Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Represent the State in Litigation and Appeal at the High Court, Magistrates
Courts, Labour Courts, Land Courts, Land Claims Courts, CCMA, Tax and Tax
tribunals; Re-Furnish legal advice and opinions; Draft and/or settle all types of
arrangements on behalf of various clients; Attend to liquidation and insolvency,
queries, conveyancing and notarial services; Deal with all forms of arbitration,
including inter-departmental arbitration, register trust and debt collection;
Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Ramohlale Tel No: (012) 406 4879 /Cell: +27 71 761 5052
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower.
NOTE : A separate application must be submitted for each position quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 26/100 : ASSISTANT STATE ATTORNEY (LP3-LP4) (X29 POSTS)
SALARY : R392 625 – R1 074 222 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD rules.
CENTRE State Attorney, East London Ref No:131/26/EC (X3 Posts)
State Attorney, Port Elizabeth Ref No 130/26/EC (X2 Posts)
State Attorney, Bloemfontein Ref No: 26/24 /FS (X1 Post)
State Attorney, Pretoria Ref No: 2026/27/GP (X8 Posts)
State Attorney, Mahikeng Ref No: 26/VA47/NW (X1 Post)
State Attorney: Mthatha Ref No:132/26/EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney, Johannesburg Ref No: 2026/29/GP (X2 Posts)
State Attorney, Durban Ref No: 26/31/KZN (X8 Posts)
State Attorney, Cape Town Ref No: 50/2026/WC (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Law / LLB as recognised by SAQA. Four (4)
year recognized legal qualification; Admission as an Attorney; At least 2 years
appropriate post qualification legal / litigation experience; A valid driver’s
license. Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and
drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow management; Strategic and conceptual
65
orientation; Communication skills (written and verbal). Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy; Legal research and drafting; Dispute
resolution; Case flow management; Strategic and conceptual orientation;
Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Handle litigation and appeals in the High Courts, Magistrate’s Court, Labour
Courts, Land Claims Court and CCMA; Draft and/or settle all types of
agreements on behalf of the various clients; Render legal opinions and advice;
Handle all forms of arbitration, including inter-departmental arbitration and debt
collection. Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Ramohlale Tel No: (012) 406 4879 /Cell: +27 71 761 5052
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower.
NOTE : A separate application must be submitted for each position quoting the relevant
reference number.
66
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme. Appointment is subject to successful completion of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by
applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a
criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application
before the closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not
submit duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Applications submitted via email will be
acknowledged via an automated response. Applications received manually will
not be acknowledged due to high volumes of applications received. If you have
not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: The position of Deputy Director: Strategic Land Acquisition ref
3/1/1/1/2026/150 for the Directorate: Strategic Land Acquisition: Limpopo
(Polokwane) that was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 24 dated
10 July 2026 has reference. The position has been withdrawn. The Department
apologies for any inconvenience caused.
67
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/101 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/179
Directorate: Monitoring And Evaluation
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced Diploma in Development
Studies / Social Sciences / Public Administration (NQF Level 7) or related
equivalent qualification and a Nyukela certificate (Pre-entry Certificate to the
SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Minimum of 5 years’ experience at senior
managerial level in monitoring and evaluation. Experience in monitoring for
verification of the projects. Experience in integrated planning for multisector
engagement for improved rural development outcomes. A valid driver’s licence.
Job related knowledge: Knowledge of monitoring and evaluation frameworks
including the Government wide monitoring and evaluation system. Knowledge
of the legislation that is applicable to the Department and the sector. Job
related skills: Interpersonal relations and presentation. Communication (verbal
and written). Negotiation and advocacy. Interpretation ability. Project
management. Strategic capacity and leadership ability. Computer literacy.
Diplomatic. Report writing ability. Ability to conduct investigation.
DUTIES : Oversee the development and maintenance of an integrated monitoring and
evaluation system. Develop / review the Department’s framework for
monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Department and relevant
State-Owned Entities (SOEs) the framework may include policy, strategy,
processes, tools etc. Oversee the development/review of the Department’s
systems for managing data and information as well as reporting. Oversee the
development of a framework for assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of
the monitoring and evaluation system. Oversee the conducting of periodic
assessments to determine the effectiveness and efficiency of the monitoring
and evaluation system. Oversee the development/review of the Department’s
systems for managing data and information as well as reporting. Monitor and
report on the performance of the Department in line with strategic plans, annual
performance plans and operational plans. Drive operational excellence and
governance of the Department. Develop and maintain performance monitoring
tools and frameworks. Coordinate and compile institutional performance and
strategic reports. Compile and consolidate inputs into the departmental annual
report. Conduct evaluation assessments related to the programmes of the
Department. Develop and maintain evaluation frameworks. Perform evaluation
of strategic projects and programmes according to the departmental evaluation
plan. Analyse and interpret evaluation data. Facilitate development of sectoral
evaluation plan. Manage monitoring and evaluation functions and provide
technical support to public entities. Oversee the processes of monitoring and
reporting between DLRRD and public entities. Facilitate and coordinate
capacity building on monitoring and evaluation matters. Facilitate the
development and support implementation of monitoring and evaluation
frameworks and guidelines for public entities. Facilitate and coordinate
planning, monitoring and evaluation working groups. Provide strategic
guidance and support on the development and review of performance
indicators. Facilitate and coordinate monitoring of strategic projects
performance and results. Create capacity to monitor and evaluate
performance. Facilitate the provision of training with regards to monitoring and
evaluation. Formulate and manage strategic partnerships to enhance the
capacity of the Department to monitor and evaluate its performance. Establish
and lead forums / structures aimed at enhancing monitoring and evaluation
practises within the Department. Participate in national, regional and
international forums and structures aimed at enhancing monitoring and
evaluation practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P.J Van Niekerk Tel No: (012) 312 9550
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van Der Walt Street) Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0001 or by email to Post179@dlrrd.gov.za
68
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/102 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/180
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R932 929 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package to be structured in
accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Human Resources Management / Human
Resource Development / Labour Relations (NQF Level 6) or related equivalent
qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior management in a human
resource management environment. PERSAL Personnel Certificate, PERSAL
Leave Administration certificate. Knowledge and experience in pension
administration. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Employment
Equity Act. Public Service Regulations. Basic Conditions of Employment Act.
Public Service Act. Skills Development Act. Labour Relations Act. Public
Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council (PSCBC) resolutions. Promotion of
Access to Information Act (PAIA). Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
(PAJA). Public Finance Management Act. Job related skills: Analytical thinking.
Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Report writing ability.
Problem solving ability.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor human resource management services. Oversee and
manage the capturing of appointments on PERSAL. Oversee and manage the
administration of allowances. Oversee and manage compensation of service
benefits and conditions. Oversee and manage the administration of leave.
Oversee and monitor the processing of employee mobility (e.g. translation in
rank, secondments, re-assignments, counter-offers). Manage termination of
service. Provide advise on human resource management services. Manage
employee relations. Monitor the grievances submitted to National Office.
Monitor disciplinary cases submitted to National Office. Manage the
implementation of progressive discipline, grievance and misconduct cases
outcomes. Manage the capturing of labour relations events. Manage employee
performance management, training and development system. Oversee and
manage the submission of performance agreements. Oversee and manage the
mid-term review assessments. Oversee and manage the annual assessment
process. Coordinate and facilitate the assessments of staff including senior
management members. Provide statistics on compliance. Oversee and
manage the capturing of Employee Performance Management and
Development System (EPMDS) documents on PERSAL. Oversee and
manage the capturing the of performance incentives. Ensure submission of
inputs on the workplace skills plan. Manage the activities of the training and
development committee. Manage and oversee the submission of training
memorandums to National Office. Oversee and monitor the provisioning
training and development in the province. Manage and oversee the orientation
of employees. Monitor the placement approval of the in-service requests.
Manage the appointment of interns within the province. Coordinate compilation
of training reports and provide statistics with regards to training courses
attended. Provide advise on training and EPMDS matters Manage recruitment
and selection. Oversee and manage recruitment and selection processes.
Monitor the updating of Employment Equity targets. Monitor security
clearances for selected candidates. Oversee and manage submissions for
appointment. Provide statistics with regards to filling of posts. Manage and
oversee the activities of Employment Equity Forums. Ensure provision of
statistics with regard to recruitment and selection. Manage employee health
and wellness programmes. Oversee and manage the implementation of
employee health and wellness programmes. Ensure provision reports with
regards to employee health and wellness programmes and referral to wellness
service providers. Manage and oversee the activities of Employee Health and
Wellness Forum. Ensure provision of advice on EHWP matters.
ENQUIRIES : LS Mahasha Tel No: (015) 495 1956
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post180@dlrrd.gov.za
69
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 26/103 : PROFESSIONAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER (GRADE A-C)
REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/181
Directorate: Rural Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R914 517 – R1 376 199 per annum, (Salary will be in accordance with the OSD
requirements)
CENTRE : North West (Mmabatho)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Higher Diploma (Built Environment field) with a
minimum of 4 years and 6 months certified experience. BTech (Built
Environment field) with a minimum of 4 years’ certified managerial experience.
Honors Degree in any Built Environment field with a minimum of 3 years’
experience. Compulsory registration with the South African Council for the
Project and Construction Management Professions (SACPCMP) as
Professional Construction Project manager on appointment. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: Programme and project management. Project
principles and methodologies. Engineering design and analysis. Knowledge
research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance and technical report writing. Creating high
performance culture. Professional judgement and networking. Job related
skills: Decision making. Team leadership. Analytical thinking and creativity.
Self-management. Financial management. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Communication (verbal and written). Computer literacy.
Planning and organising. Conflict management. Problem solving and analysis.
People management.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of projects. Guide the project planning,
implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation in line with project
management methodology. Create and execute project work plans and revise
as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements. Identify resources
needed and assign individual responsibilities. Manage day-to-day operational
aspects of a project and scope. Apply methodology effectively and enforce
projects standards to minimise risk on projects. Provide project accounting and
financial management services. Report project progress to Chief Construction
Project Manager. Manage project budget and resources. Manage office
administration tasks and budget planning. Provide inputs to other professionals
with tender administration. Liaise and interact with service providers, client and
management. Contribute to the human resources and related activities.
Maintain the record management system and the architectural library and
utilise resources allocated effectively. Conduct research and development.
Keep up abreast with new technologies and procedures. Research/literature
on new developments on project management methodologies. Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on project management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dlamini Tel No: (012) 312 9295
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: Cnr
James Moroka and Sekame Drive, West Gallery, Megacity, Mmabatho, 2735
or by email to Post181@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 26/104 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/184
Directorate: Financial And Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Logistics Management / Public
Management / Purchasing Management / Supply Chain Management /
Management (Logistics / Supply Chain Management). Minimum of 2 years of
experience in procurement administration/acquisition
management/provisioning administration. Job-related knowledge: The
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Treasury Regulations. Treasury Supply Chain and Management
guidelines and practice notes. Knowledge of supply chain management with
emphasis on procurement administration and Government and CIBD
70
procurement policies. Knowledge of Transversal contracts and the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and relevant prescripts. Job related skills: Computer
literacy. Communication (verbal and written). Interpersonal relations. Analytical
thinking. Teamwork. Working under pressure and meeting deadlines.
DUTIES : Facilitate demand management services. Conduct and analyse the market per
commodity. Coordinate and review the procurement and demand management
plan. Receive and check compliance of all procurement request from clients.
Provide support in drafting specifications. Compile and update procurement
and demand plan progress report. Implement the quotation process. Manage
sourcing of quotations amounting to R1 000 000.00 using the electronic
departmental database (CSD). Check compliance of all procurement
documents and processes. Ensure the sourcing of goods and services from
updated registered service providers on the National Treasury supplier
database. Arrange and facilitate BID specifications where and when applicable.
Conduct and facilitate briefing sessions where and when applicable.
Coordinate compilation minutes of the briefing session outcome. Arrange and
facilitate Bid Evaluation Committee procedures where and when applicable.
Coordinate and check minutes. Coordinate comparative schedules for request
above R30 000.00. Coordinate documentation for approval. Coordinate
appointment letters and update registers. Implement the Bidding process.
Compile Bid documentation for approval to advertise. Publish the Bids.
Conduct and facilitate briefing sessions. Compile and check minutes. Open
bids and record on the relevant systems/websites. Prepare comparatives
schedules in terms of the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act and
Regulations. Compile and where necessary and check minutes of all the
meetings. Draft and package the submission to the Bid Adjudication Committee
for consideration. Provide secretariat duties to the Provincial Bid Adjudication
Committee (PBAC). Prepare appointment letters and update the register and
procurement plan. Publish award to the relevant media. Facilitate contract
management services. Maintain and update contract register. Prepare
standard Bid document (SBD 7.1 and 7.2) for sign off.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MO Fakude Tel No: (013) 754 8074
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 7th Floor
Block E, Bateleur Office Park Building, 17 Van Rensburg Street, Nelspruit,
1200 or by email to Post184@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 26/105 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/182
Chief Directorate: Property Management and Advisory Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and National Diploma in Secretarial / Office Administration /
Management or relevant equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’
experience in rendering a support service to senior management. Job-related
knowledge: Relevant legislation/policies / prescripts and procedures,
Telephone etiquette, Basic knowledge of financial administration. Job related
skills: Sound organisational ability. Computer literacy (Microsoft Office). Good
interpersonal relations. High level of reliability. Communication (verbal and
written). Language and ability to communicate well with people at different
levels and from different backgrounds. Ability to do research and analyse
documents and situations. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Self-
management and motivation. Willingness to work extended hours. Classified
Secrets Security Clearance.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial / receptionist support service to the manager. Receives
telephone calls in an environment where, in addition to the calls for the senior
manager, discretion is required to decide to whom the call should be forwarded.
In the process the job incumbent should finalise some enquiries. Performs
advanced typing work. Operates and ensures that office equipment, e.g.
printers and photocopies are in good working order. Record the engagements
of the senior manager. Utilises discretion to decide whether to accept/decline
or refer to other employees’ requests for meetings, based on the assessed
importance and urgency of the matter. Coordinates with and sensitises/advises
the manager regarding engagements. Compiles realistic schedules for
appointments. Render administrative support service. Ensures the effective
71
flow of information and documents to and from the office of the manager.
Ensures the safe keeping of all documentation in the office of the manager in
line with relevant legislation and policies. Obtains inputs, collates and compiles
reports, e.g.: Progress reports, Monthly reports and management reports.
Scrutinises routine submissions/reports and make notes and/or
recommendations for the manager. Respond to enquiries received from
internal and external stakeholders. Drafts documents as required. Does filling
of documents for the manager and the unit where required. Collects, analyses
and collates information requested by the manager. Clarifies instructions and
notes on behalf of the manager. Ensures that travel arrangements are well
coordinated. Prioritises issues in the office of the manager. Manages the leave
register and telephone accounts for the unit. Handles procurement of standard
items like stationary, refreshments etc. for the activities of the manager and the
unit. Obtains the necessary signatures on documents like procurement advice
and monthly salary reports. Provides support to manager regarding meetings.
Scrutinises documents to determine actions/information / other documents
required for meetings. Collects and compiles all necessary documents for the
manager to inform him / her on the contents. Records minutes/decisions and
communicates to relevant role-players, follow-up on progress made. Prepares
briefing notes for the manager as required. Coordinates logistical
arrangements for meetings when required. Supports the manager with the
administration for the manager’s budget. Collects and coordinates all the
documents that relate to the manager’s budget. Assists manager in
determining funding requirements for purposes of Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) submissions. Keeps records for expenditure
commitments, monitors expenditure and alerts manager of possible over and
under spending. Checks and correlates Basic Accounting System (BAS)
reports to ensure that expenditure is allocated correctly. Identifies the need to
move funds between items, consults with the manager and compiles draft
memos for this purpose. Compares the MTEF allocation with the requested
budget and informs the manager of changes. Studies the relevant public
service and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure
that the application thereof is understood properly. Remains up to date with
regard to the prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to his / her work
terrain to ensure efficient and effective support to the manager. Remains
abreast with the procedures and processes that apply in the office of the
manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Maki Tel No: (012) 312 8244
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van Der Walt Street) Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0001 or by email to Post182@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured,
Indian and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 26/106 : SECRETARY REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/183
Directorate: Corporate Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Computer literacy (Microsoft Word,
Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) Job related skills: Good telephone etiquette.
Sound organisational ability. Good people skills. Computer literacy. Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds (both written and verbal). Ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide a secretariat / receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant senior manager. Record appointments and events in the diary.
Type documents for the senior manager and other staff within the unit. Operate
office equipment e.g. computers and photocopiers. Provide a clerical support
service to the Senior Manager. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Check arrangements when relevant documents are received.
Arrange meetings and events for the senior manager and the staff in the unit.
Identifies venues, invite role players, organise refreshments and sets up
schedules for meeting and events. Process the travel and subsistence claims
for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the work of
the senior manager. Records basic minutes of meetings of the senior manager
72
where required. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Do filing of
documents for the senior manager and the unit where necessary. Administer
matters like leave registers and telephonic accounts. Receive, records and
distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handle the procurement of
standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. Collects all relevant
documents to enable the Director to prepare for meetings. Remains up to date
with regard to prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to her / his work
environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior manager.
Study the relevant public service and the departmental prescripts / policies and
other documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Keep abreast with the procedures and process that apply in the office of the
senior manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Ziqubu Tel No: (033) 264 9515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or by email to Post183@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
73
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL AND PETROLEUM RESOURCES
The Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources (DMPR) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action
employer and it is its intention to promote representivity in the Public Sector through the filling of this
post. Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity are encouraged to
apply, particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must be submitted via DMPR E-Recruitment System accessible
using the following link https://erecruitment.dmpr.gov.za
Applications must create a user profile by completing all required personal
information and setting up your login credential on DMPR E-Recruitment
System. Once registration is complete and logged in to the system, you may
browse all vacant positions. Another option is to submit application by post or
courier, quoting relevant reference, addressed to: The Director-General,
Department of Mineral and Petroleum Resources, Private Bag X59, Pretoria,
0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand delivered to Trevenna
Campus, corner Meintjies and Francis Baard Street, former Schoeman.
General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Ms T Gumede Tel No:
(012) 444- 3319.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Applications are strongly advised to complete and attach recent Z83
application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued by the
Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the Public
Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.dpsa.gov.za and detailed Curriculum Vitae when submitting applications
on DMPR E-Recruitment System. Applications must be submitted on the recent
Z83 application form which came into effect from 01 January 2021 as issued
by the Minister of Public Service Administration in line with regulation 10 of the
Public Service Regulations, 2016 as amended, which is obtainable online from
www.gov.za and www.dpsa.gov.za. All sections of the Z83 must be completed
(In full, accurately, legibly, honestly, initialled, signed and dated), and
accompanied by a comprehensive/ detailed Curriculum Vitae only. Applicants
are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
required from shortlisted candidates only on or before the day of the interview.
The Curriculum Vitae must have at least three (3) reference persons and their
contacts. Failure to provide accurate information on a job application as well
as incomplete information will result in a disqualification. Job applicants in
possession of a foreign qualification(s), must also provide an evaluation
certificate obtainable from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). If
an invitation for an interview is not received within three (3) months after the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Requirements
stated on the advertised posts are minimum inherent requirements; therefore,
criteria for shortlisting will depend on the proficiency of the applications
received. Shortlisted candidates will be assessed through practical exercise
and an oral interview. Applicants must note that personnel suitability checks
(PSC) will be conducted on the short-listed applicants, therefore will be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct this exercise. PSC includes security screening and vetting,
qualification verification, criminal records, financial records checks. Applicants
who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well as
application received after the closing date will not be considered. If an applicant
wishes to withdraw an application, He/ She must do so in writing. It is also
important to note that the Department reserves the right not to fill any
advertised post at any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/107 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR REF NO: 080
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Western Cape Region, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Mining Engineering, Electrical/ Mechanical Engineering
(NQF 7) PLUS Mine Manager’s Certificate of Competency or Advanced
74
Diploma, Certificate of Competency for Mechanical or Electrical Engineering
(Mines) with minimum of 5 years senior/middle management experience in
mining and a valid driver’s licence, Knowledge of: Practical and theoretical
knowledge of mining. Legal knowledge. Departmental Directives. Public
Service Act and Regulations. Personnel Code Directives. Skills: Good
interpersonal relations. Communication verbal and oral. Organisational ability
control, interpretation and application of legal matters and policies. Teamwork.
Training. Negotiating. Adaptability. Conflict handling. Computer literacy. Loyalty
towards work. Innovative thinker. Dedication Thinking Demand: Receptive to
suggestions and ideas. Quality control. Compliance with rules and regulations.
Discipline, work ethics, financial control. Self confidence and acceptability.
Tactfulness. Organisational ability, intolerance to waste-money, time honesty.
DUTIES : Manage the Mine Health and Safety Directorate. Ensure the conducting of and
reporting on all underground, shaft and surface audits and inspections on
matters relating to mine safety, mine equipment, occupational hygiene and
medicine. Ensuring the conducting of and reporting on of all investigations into
mine related accidents and diseases, contraventions and complaints. Provide
the necessary reports on mine closures, prospecting rights, mining rights and
permits EMP’s and township development. Provide regional reports, revision
of mining legislation, guidelines and standard; and applications of exemptions,
permissions and approvals. Ensure the conducting, testing and licensing of
equipment on mines i.e. winders lifts, chairlifts, boilers and conduct statutory
inspections. Ensure holding of any necessary board of examiners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. T Ngwenya at 082 452 9038
NOTE : No appointment shall be affected without the recommended candidate
producing a Certificate of completion for the SMS Pre-Entry Programme
(Nyukela) offered by the National School of government which can be
accessed via this link: https://www.thensg.gov.za. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. The Candidate
will have to disclose her/ his financial Interests. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Note: Indian /Coloured or white female are encouraged
to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/108 : INSPECTOR: MINE SURVEYING REF NO: 081 (X3 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, candidates who applied previously need not to re-apply
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria, Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Mine Surveying/ Mineral Resource Management ( NQF
6) with Mine Surveyors Certificate of Competence and valid driver's licence
PLUS minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior managerial level in Mine
Surveying, Knowledge of: In-depth understanding and knowledge of the mine
health and safety, knowledge of the policy regime affecting the minerals and
mining industry, government policy and legislation Skills: Problem solving,
Communication (Verbal, written, liaison), Influencing skills, Negotiation skills,
Proven management skills, Management and Organisation skills, Advanced
analytical skills, Good interpersonal relations at all levels, Conflict management
skills, Creativity and innovation, Numerical, Organising and coordinating,
Facilitation and implementation, Financial Management, Negotiation and
consultation skills, Problem solving and analysis, Strategic capability and
leadership, Change management, Thinking demand: Creative/ innovative
thinker, Logical, Objective, Accurate, Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Conduct underground inspection, compile reports and maintain records.
Conduct inspection of plans and records of surface and underground mines,
compile reports and maintain records. Investigate and make recommendations
surface utilization applications, compile reports and maintain records. Process
statutory applications regarding mine and surveying permissions and
exemptions, compile reports and maintain records. Serve on mine surveying
75
related committees and attend seminars Conduct practical mine surveying field
tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. G Sekwati Tel No: (012) 444 3789
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: Indian /Coloured or
white male are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/109 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO DDG: MINERAL AND PETROLEUM
REGULATION REF NO: 082
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Office Administration/Office Management and
Technology/Public Administration (NQF 6), minimum of 1 year appropriate
experience before or after qualification was obtained Knowledge of:
Knowledge on the relevant legislation/polities/prescripts and procedure, Basic
knowledge on financial administration, Skills: Language skills and ability to
communicate well with people at different level and from different background,
Good telephone etiquette, Computer literacy, Sound organisational skills, Good
people skills, High level reliability, Ability to act with tact discretion, Self-
management and motivation, Thinking demand: Ability to do research
documents and situations.
DUTIES : Provides secretarial/receptionist support service to the manager. Render
administrative support services. Provides support to manager regarding
meetings. Support the manager with the administration of the Manager’s
budget. Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure the application thereof is
understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. D Moraile Tel No: (012) 444 3139
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: Indian /Coloured /
White male including persons with disability encouraged to apply.
POST 26/110 : DRIVER/ MESSENGER REF NO: 083
(Office of the Deputy Minister): Mineral and Petroleum Resources
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 and a valid driver’s licence. Plus the following key competencies:
Knowledge of: Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service, Broad
knowledge and understanding of the functional areas covered by the executive
authority’s portfolio, working knowledge of the political and parliamentary
processes in South Africa Skills: computer literacy. Communication skills
(verbal and written). Creativity and innovation. Interpersonal skills, Thinking
Demand: Logical. Creative/Innovative thinker. Objective. Accurate. Diplomatic.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver documents, Transport employees in the office of the Deputy
Minister and guests and special advisors of the Deputy Minister, Maintain
knowledge on the policies and procedures that applies in the work
environment. Render a general support function in the office of the Deputy
Minister.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Ndebele Tel No: (012) 4443159
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: Indian /Coloured or
white male are encouraged to apply.
POST 26/111 : FOOD AIDE SERVICE REF NO: 084
(Office of the Deputy Minister): Mineral and Petroleum Resources
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
76
REQUIREMENTS : ABET 2 (NQF 1), plus the following key competencies: Knowledge of:
Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service portfolio, Working knowledge
of the political and parliamentary processes in South Africa Skills:
communication and diplomatic skills, Thinking Demand: Analytical thinking and
Creativity.
DUTIES : Clean kitchen utensils and equipment, provide catering support services. Keep
stock of kitchen utensils and equipment. Apply hygiene and safety measures,
maintain quality control measures of all food provided. Removal of garbage
disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Ndebele Tel No: (012) 444 3159
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Note: Indian /Coloured or
white male are encouraged to apply.
77
ANNEXURE M
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT
The Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) is a Government Component within the Ministry for
Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs. It is a Schedule 3 entity regulated in terms of the Public
Service Act, 1994, as amended. MISA’s primary function is to support municipalities in infrastructure
planning implementation, operations, and maintenance.
CLOSING DATE : 11 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/ ’’From 1 January 2021 should an application be received
using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it will not be considered”,
a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees (telephone numbers and
email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are not required to submit
copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must
submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified qualifications , only shortlisted candidates will
submit proof of permanent residence. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for all posts will be subjected to (1)
a technical/practical exercise; (2) integrity assessment (3) personnel suitability
checks on criminal records, citizen verification, financial records, qualification;
and for SMS posts (4) verification a generic managerial competency
assessment and applicants could be required to provide consent for access to
their social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be expected to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement within 3 months of
appointment, as well as completing a financial interest declaration within one
month of appointment and annually thereafter. The department reserves the
right not to fill the post(s). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels
shall score both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview
process. MISA invites suitable candidates to apply for the following positions,
based in MISA Head Office in Centurion, Pretoria, and other Provinces.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/112 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (CIVIL) REF NO: MISA/PE- CIV/03 (X6
POSTS)
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, Total cost package, (OSD)
CENTRE : North West - Vryburg and Mafikeng (X2 Posts)
Gauteng MISA Head Office – Centurion
Mpumalanga - Ermelo
KwaZulu-Natal – Pietermaritzburg
Eastern Cape - OR Tambo District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Civil Engineering (B Eng/ BSc Eng) or equivalent
relevant qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA with three (3)
years post-qualification experience in Civil Engineering. Compulsory
registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a
Professional Engineer. Process Competencies: Knowledge Management.
Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation
and Customer Focus. Communication Skills. Core Competencies: Strategic
Capacity and Leadership. People Management and Empowerment.
Programme and Project Management. Financial Management. Change
Management. Technical competencies: In depth knowledge and understanding
of: Engineering design and analysis knowledge. Engineering and professional
judgement. Contract management. Knowledge of local socio-economic
infrastructure. Engineering, legal and operational compliance. Engineering
operational communication.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Provide support on
Civil Engineering services in accordance with South African Policies, Acts,
78
Regulations, and industry guidelines following MISA and Municipal Norms and
Practices. Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges,
improve efficiency, and enhance safety. Conduct the diagnostic process of the
identified municipalities (poor performing). Assess municipal infrastructure
planning, development, implementation, operation, and Maintenance
requirements of municipalities. Support municipalities on infrastructure life
cycle covering Pre-feasibility and Feasibility studies, Design and Development,
Implementation and Operation and Maintenance including procurement,
programme/ project, and contract management. Support in the development,
review, and the implementation of municipal sector master plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thato Noge & Mr Nkhululeko Masinge Tel No: (012) 848 5300/ 5352/ 5305
/ To The T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa30@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 26/113 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: MISA/IAA/22 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : MISA Head Office – Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or Degree in Built Environment or
equivalent relevant qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by SAQA. 3-5 years’
experience of which 2 years should supervisory level in the relevant field. Core
competencies: Applied strategic thinking. Problem solving and decision
making. Planning and organising. Interpersonal relations. Team management
and project management. Technical competencies: In depth knowledge and
understanding of: Reporting processes and systems. Presentation and writing
skills. People management. Diversity management.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Coordinate and
conduct infrastructure asset assessment and analysis. Develop infrastructure
asset register. Provide technical support to municipalities in assessing
infrastructure maintenance budgets and expenditure to determine provision for
maintenance requirements. Provide technical support to municipalities in the
analysis of infrastructure plans and expenditure against budget, including
infrastructure maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thato Noge & Mr Nkhululeko Masinge Tel No: (012) 848 5300/ 5352/ 5305
/ To The T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa28@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 26/114 : INTERNAL AUDITOR REF NO: MISA/IA/23
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : MISA Head Office – Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or Degree in Internal Auditing or
equivalent relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA. 3 years appropriate
experience in Internal Auditing. Core competencies: Service Delivery
Innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Communication. Computer literacy. Technical competencies: In depth
knowledge and understanding of: Operational and performance audits. Risk
Management and auditing practises. The Public Finance Management Act.
Development of policies.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Assist in the initial
communication with auditee, gathering of auditee background information,
developing of system descriptions, process flows and audit programs. Conduct
audits and investigations for the organisation as required by the audit standard.
Draft and discuss the audit findings with the supervisor and management.
Follow-up on internal audits recommended for management actions. Internal
auditors work complies with quality assurance standard set for the Treasury
regulations and the PFMA and the standard for the Professional Practise of
internal auditing and the code of ethics of the institute of Internal Auditors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thato Noge & Mr Nkhululeko Masinge Tel No: (012) 848 5300/ 5352/ 5305
/ To The T Recruitment at 067 391 7387
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa29@tttrecruitment.co.za
79
ANNEXURE N
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Gauteng/Randburg: Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be
hand delivered to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Limpopo/Thohoyandou: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice Service Centre,
Limpopo, Private Bag X9693, Polokwane, 0700. Applications can also be hand
delivered to the High Court of South Africa: Limpopo Division, Polokwane, 36
Biccard & Bodenstein Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Eastern Cape/Mthatha/Makhanda/Gqeberha/Bisho: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag X13012, Cambridge 5206, East
London. Applications can also be hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue,
Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. Applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment
for SMS, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, social media, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
80
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/115 : LAW REASECHER REF NO: 2026/82/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 – R 573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Land Court: Randburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree at (NQF level 8) as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (03) years in the relevant field.
Superior court or litigation experience and a valid driver’s license will serve as
an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Basic Conditions of Employment Act and related labour
laws & Departmental policies, knowledge of the Labour Relations Act 66 of
1995, Labour and Labour Appeal Court Rules and Practice Manual,
Employment Equity Act, Practice Manual of the Court, sound understanding of
South African law and judicial system, interpretation and application of the law,
excellent communication skills (verbal and written), computer literacy,
numerical skills. planning and organising skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills, interpersonal skills, excellent research and analytical skills,
project management skills, report writing and editing skills, honesty and
integrity, resilience, attention to detail, flexibility conflict management, strong
work ethics, professionalism, ability to work under pressure and meeting of
deadlines, results driven, trustworthy, observance of confidentiality and time
bound.
DUTIES : Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes, rules,
regulations, and case law analyse, apply complex legal principles and provide
summaries to the judges, provide research support to judges in the preparation
of hearings and trials, carry out research and retrieve all material from all
sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal issues as requested
by a Judge, provide analysis through studying all the relevant material, study
all the relevant material and provide a thorough analysis thereof, provide
support to the judges with legal, arguments analysis submitted by litigants,
evaluate merits of each argument, research supporting and opposing case law
(precedent) and provide recommendations to the judges, review legal issues,
arguments, and relevant case law in the form of legal memos, prepare a
comprehensive memorandum on the outcome of the legal research, provide
support to judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to ensure
clarity and accuracy, proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and
conference papers with respect to spelling and grammar, quality assure all
references and footnotes in all judgments and legal articles against the original
text to ensure correctness and accuracy, correct mistakes (typos) with the help
of track changes so that judges can accept or decline any proposed changes,
quality assure the maintenance of knowledge of recent legal developments,
new legislation, and relevant case law, provide support to the monitoring of
legal journals, ensure that judges have access to the latest legal information,
keep up breast with recent developments in relevant areas of law such as
legislative changes, new precedents and emerging legal trends.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Mhlambi Tel No: (010) 493 6316
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2026/82/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
81
POST 26/116 : LAW RESEARCHER REF NO: 2026/83/OCJ
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897.per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Makhanda
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a four-year recognised
legal qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ legal
research experience in the relevant field. Superior court or litigation experience
and a valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Electronic Information Resources and online retrieval (Westlaw, LexisNexis,
Jutastat SAFLLI and Sabinet) Practice Manual of the Court, sound
understanding of South African law and judicial system, Interpretation and
application of the law, Batho Pele Principles, communication skills (verbal and
written), problem solving and decision-making skills, excellent research and
analytical skills, report writing and editing skills, analytical skills, presentation
skills, planning and organising skills, computer literacy. communication and
Information Management, accuracy and attention to detail. Diversity
Management, managing interpersonal conflict, Project Management, ability to
work under pressure and time management skills.
DUTIES : Provide support to legal research functions for the Judges and other Court
officials: Provide support with legal research on various legal issues, statutes,
rules, regulations, and case law, analyse and apply complex legal principles
and provide summaries to the judges, provide research support to judges in
the preparation of hearings and trials, carry out research and retrieve all
material from all sources in both hard copy and electronic formats on legal
issues, as requested by a Judge, provide analysis through studying all the
relevant material, study all the relevant material and provide a thorough
analysis thereof. Prepare and compile legal opinions: Provide support to the
judges with legal arguments analysis submitted by litigants, evaluate merits of
each argument, research supporting and opposing case law (precedent) and
provide recommendations to the judges, review legal issues, arguments, and
relevant case law in the form of legal memos, prepare a comprehensive
memorandum on the outcome of the legal research. Provide support with
drafting of clear, consistent and comprehensive judgments: Provide support to
judges in reviewing and proofreading draft judgment(s) to ensure clarity and
accuracy, proofread all judgments, articles, speeches and conference papers
with respect to spelling and grammar, quality assure all references, full citation
of judgments and footnotes in all draft judgments and legal articles against the
original text to ensure correctness and accuracy, correct mistakes (typos) with
the help of track changes so that judges can accept or decline any proposed
changes. Ensure that Judges are up to date on recent developments in case
law, practice directives and legislation: Quality assure the maintenance of
knowledge of recent legal developments, new legislation, and relevant case
law, provide support to the monitoring of legal journals, ensure that judges have
access to the latest legal information, keep up breast with recent developments
in relevant areas of law, such as legislative changes, new precedents, and
emerging legal trends.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. L Frazer Tel No: (046) 603 5000
: HR Related Enquiries: Ms. Z Sulo at (087) 086 6929
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/83/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/117 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2026/84/OCJ
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Legal Interpreting
or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of one (1) year’ experience as a Court Interpreter, or Grade
twelve (12) certificate with at least ten (10) years practical experience in Court
Interpreting. Proficiency in English and isiXhosa. Proficiency in any other
indigenous languages i.e. isiZulu, Afrikaans, Sesotho or Setswana and a valid
82
driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of relevant acts
and regulations, knowledge of culture, knowledge of subject area, knowledge
on how to translate and be able to keep to time frame, computer literacy (MS
Office), effective communication skills (written and verbal), time management,
good interpersonal relations skills, listening skills, customer service skills,
problem solving skills, planning and organising skills, decision-making skills.
analytical thinking, excellent English language, flexible, motivational, able to
work under pressure, meticulous, self-driven and people-centric.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services: Interpret in Children’s Act matters, criminal
proceedings, Civil proceedings, Domestic Violence Act matters, Older Persons
Act matters, Family, Protection from Harassment Act matters, Labour,
Maintenance Act matters, Child Justice matters, Inquests, and quasi-judicial
matters, interpret in small claims Courts, interpret in disciplinary hearing,
interpret in Conciliation and Arbitration, interpret in confession. Interpret in pre-
trial proceedings and consultations, liaise with the supervisor for foreign
language interpreters, interpret from source to target language during Court
proceedings, pre-trial, consultation, quasi, judicial. interpret non-verbal
gestures, dramatization and confessions, engage with the judiciary to confer
on the readiness and/or performance of a particular interpreter in Court, render
legal and quasi-judicial and language service: Render audible and clear
interpreting from source to target language without embellishment or omissions
while preserving the language, convey the correct language in accordance with
language usage of the speaker, control the speaker and ensure that the
citations are interpreted correctly, interpret non-verbal gestures dramatization
and confessions, translate legal documents and exhibits: Study and analyse
the source document, conduct the necessary research and consult with the
relevant parties, ensure accurate cite translation documents, check, edit and
revise the translated document, translate mechanically recorded audio
material. Develop terminology and provide support in the reconstruction of
records: Accumulate terminology and develop database, populate the terms
and respective meaning in the glossary register, gather all trial documents,
attend to mechanical recordings, compare notes of the Presiding Officer, State
and Defence.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. L Ceza Tel No: (040) 608 7738
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. Z Sulo at (087) 086 6929
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/84/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/118 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2026/85/OCJ
SALARY : R337 563 - R1 155 777 per annum (MR3-MR5), Salary will be in accordance
with Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for determination of
their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a four (4) year Legal
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years post graduate
legal experience. MR3: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 2 years
post graduate legal experience. MR4: LLB Degree or equivalent plus minimum
of 8 years post graduate legal experience. MR5: LLB Degree or equivalent plus
a minimum of 14 years post graduate legal experience. Superior Court or
litigation experience and a driver’s license will be an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of registrar’s duties, Case Flow Management, legislative framework governing
the public service, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of
the working environment, Batho Pele Principles, excellent communication skills
(verbal and written), computer literacy, numerical skills, planning and
organising skills, problem solving and decision-making skills, interpersonal
skills, conflict management skills, time management skills, analytical skills,
customer service orientated, conflict management, strong work ethics and
83
professionalism, ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines, results
driven, honesty/trustworthy and observance of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Process default judgments to enhance efficiency of the Court in handling of
quasi- judicial functions: Determine whether pleadings/ processes comply with
the Court rules, consider applications for default judgment (Rule 31[5]) – by
applying Court rules and regulations, case law, discretion and knowledge,
capture accurate outcome of discretion applied on the file cover, ensure
circulation of the outcome to the relevant litigating party, capture and update
accurate Default applications register and data tool registered in the office daily,
verify data and submit reporting tool on percentage of default judgments
granted by Registrars to the Statistician, execute taxations to enhance
efficiency of the Court in handling of quasi-judicial functions, Tax bills of cost -
by hearing arguments from the parties and apply discretion and knowledge to
the reasonable litigation costs, process and finalise Opposed and Unopposed
Taxations in accordance with SOP, deal with and finalise taxation reviews (Rule
48) through the drafting of stated cases, replies, and submission to the
Judiciary, capture and update accurate Bills of costs registered and data tools
in the office, submit reporting tool on Taxations to the Statistician, manage
criminal/civil process to enhance efficiency of the Court: Analyse statistical data
to assess trends and devise strategies to address identified risk factors, resolve
Presidential Hotline queries and chapter 9 institution enquiries, coordinate and
report on the provision of support staff in Court Rooms and Registrars
supporting offices, manage the collation of performance information/ data/
Statistics for purpose of reporting as per Reporting Tools, maintain and update
manual registers for Audit of reported Performance information, supervise,
develop staff and ensure general supervision of employees.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. M Mhlontlo Tel No: (047) 504 5500
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. Z Sulo at (087) 086 6929
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/85/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/119 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LEGAL REF NO: 2026/86/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification at NQF level four (4) as recognised by SAQA. No experience is
required. A minimum of one (1) year’ experience in a legal environment, LLB
Degree qualification and a driver’s license will serve as an added advantage.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part
of the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on
the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge And Skills:
Knowledge of Public Services Legislation, Prescripts and Regulations,
research skills, communication skills (verbal and written) including presentation
skills, minute taking skills and report writing skills, problem solving and decision
making and time management skills, good reporting, organising and planning
skills, creative and analytical thinking skills and computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Conduct legal research for the Regional Court President/Chief Magistrate (as
and when required), compilation of statistics (Submission to Monitoring &
Evaluation unit, reconcile manual and electronic statistics), audit readiness and
data purification, case flow management, assisting Regional Court Registrar
and members of the public, provide administrative support in general as
requested by the Court Manager and Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. P Boya-Nyhiba Tel No: (041) 502 6626
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. Z Sulo at (087) 086 6929
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/86/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 26/120 : USHER MESSENGER REF NO: 2026/87/OCJ
SALARY : R170 226 - R200 523 per annum (Level 03). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Limpopo Division of The High Court: Thohoyandou
84
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 10 or ABET level 3 as recognised
by SAQA. A relevant experience required. A valid driver’s license will serve as
an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements.
Skills and Competencies: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the
ability to capture data, operate computers and collecting statistics, knowledge
of the MS Office package, with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power
Point and Excel, knowledge of Office Administration, knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing Public Service,
communication skills (verbal & written), problem solving skills, good public
relations skills, monitoring and analytical skills, planning and organising skills,
report writing skills and typing skills.
DUTIES : Render administrative support functions to the Judges and the Court Room,
escort members of the bench to and from Court and attends Judges' chambers
with counsel, facilitate order in Court rooms before calling the Judges in,
organise the Court crew and inform them of the starting times in line with the
daily Court roll, maintain silence and order in the Court rooms when Judges
enter or leave, check the correctness of motion Court rolls, generation of copies
and dissemination according to the distribution list, maintain Court Rooms’
records, check and arrange the criminal and civil files (to be taken to the Court
rooms), report the missing files to the Judges, file/ archive the documents,
registers, etc, facilitate the smooth- running of the Court rooms, assist with the
scheduling of Court matters (motion opposed), arrange the representation of
cases, negotiate the Court Rooms allocation with Judges in times of Court,
room shortages, collect and distribute Court files, sort and check the Court files,
keep the Court files safe and circulate Court rolls according to the distribution
list.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. BM Tjiane Tel No: (015) 495 1444
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. EM Ramaphakela Tel No: (015) 495 1744
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/87/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
85
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted / or hand-delivered to: The Department of
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME), Attention: Human Resource
Admin & Recruitment, at Private Bag X944, Pretoria, 0028 or hand delivered
to 330 Grosvenor Street, Hatfield, Pretoria, 0028 (please quote the relevant
post and reference number).
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026 @ 16:30
WEBSITE : www.dpme.gov.za
NOTE : The relevant reference number must be quoted on all applications. The
successful candidate will have to sign an annual performance agreement and
will be required to undergo a security clearance. Applications must be
submitted on a signed Z83 accompanied by a comprehensive CV only
specifying all experience indicating the respective dates (MM/YY) as well as
indicating three reference persons with the following information: name and
contact number(s), email address and an indication of the capacity in which the
reference is known to the candidate. Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates only.
Applicants will be required to meet vetting requirements as prescribed by
Minimum Information Security Standards. The DPME is an equal opportunity
affirmative action employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the
Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the Department’s intention to
promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
Failure to submit the above information will result in the application not being
considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Reference
checks will be done during the selection process. Note that correspondence
will only be conducted with the short-listed candidates. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
must be available for interviews at a date and time determined by DPME.
Applicants must note that pre-employment checks will be conducted once they
are short-listed and the appointment is also subject to positive outcomes on
these checks, which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal records. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
For salary levels 11 to 15, the inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. The DPME reserves the right to utilise practical exercises/tests for
non-SMS positions during the recruitment process (candidates who are
shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the suitability of
candidates for the post(s). The DPME also reserves the right to cancel the
filling / not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. Prior to appointment, a candidate would be required to
complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior
Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online course,
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates are required to use the new Z83 (Application for employment) that
is implemented with effect from 1 January 2021. A copy can be downloaded on
the website of the Department of Public Service & Administration (DPSA) at
www.dpsa.gov.za
86
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/121 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PLANNING ALIGNMENT REF NO: 06/ 2026
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in any of the following: Public
Administration/Management, Business Administration, Social Science,
Development Studies. 8 years’ experience in strategic planning/ public sector
institutional planning/ operational planning/ public sector development
planning/ public sector monitoring & evaluation of which 5 years should be at
a senior managerial level. NQF level 8 qualification, or higher, will be an added
advantage. A valid driver’s license. A good understanding of political,
government planning and governance issues. Good understanding of
government across the three spheres and of development partners that work
with governments. Knowledge of government prescripts (including National
Treasury regulations), policies, administrative processes, practices, and
programmes. Knowledge of the National Development Plan (NDP) and the
Medium-Term Development Plan and their implementation processes within
institutions. Ability to foster and manage effective working arrangements with
other centres of government departments and social/development partners to
ensure coordinated and integrated actions. Willingness to travel on a regular
basis. Competencies & Skills: Management skills including people
management and empowerment, and experience in managing multi-
disciplinary teams. Ability to provide strategic direction and leadership. The
ability/experience to create an environment for high performance culture and
staff development. Ability to manage multiple projects. Excellent interpersonal
& communication skills (written & verbal). Highly developed negotiation and
conflict management skills. Strategic and analytical skills. Research and policy
analysis skills. Financial management and project/programme management
skills. Good computer literacy skills. Personal Attributes: The incumbent must
be assertive and self-driven, innovative and creative, client orientated and
customer focused, solution orientated and able to work under stressful
situations.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible to: Manage, coordinate and support the
development and assessment of Strategic Plans, Annual Performance Plans
and Operational Plans with development priorities for national departments,
provincial departments and Schedule 3A & 3C public entities with regard to
non-financial performance, Manage coordinate and facilitate the quarterly
performance reporting, of non-financial performance, of national departments,
provincial departments and Schedule 3A & 3C public entities Manage the
development, review and implementation of policies, frameworks, circulars and
guidelines that support strategic planning, annual performance planning and
operational planning processes for national and provincial departments and
Schedule 3A & 3C public entities, Manage coordinate and facilitate stakeholder
engagements and forums on Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan
processes and reporting for national, provincial departments and Schedule 3A
& 3C public entities ,Provide professional management and leadership in
respect of the provision of the core functions and services assigned to the Chief
Directorate and support cross-functional work within the department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Chappell Tel No: (012) 312- 0476
APPLICATIONS : can be sent to Recruitment27@dpme.gov.za
POST 26/122 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PUBLIC SERVICE REF NO: 07 / 2026
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Public Administration, Social
Sciences. A Minimum of 8 years in Strategic and Executive Management
experience in Human Settlements, Spatial Planning Frameworks of which 5
87
years must be at senior managerial level. NQF level 8 will be an added
advantage A valid drivers-license. A good understanding of political, planning
and governance issues. Good understanding of government across the three
spheres and partners for development. Knowledge of government prescripts,
policies, administrative processes, practices, and programmes. A good
understanding of the National Developmental Planning, National Planning
Commission (NPC), National Development Plan (NDP) and its implementation
processes. Ability to foster and manage effective working arrangements with
other centre of government departments and social/development partners to
ensure co-ordinated and integrated actions. Willingness to travel on a regular
basis. Competencies & Skills: Management skills including people
management and empowerment, and experience in managing multi-
disciplinary teams. Ability to provide strategic direction and leadership. The
ability/experience to create an environment for high performance culture and
staff development. Ability to manage multiple projects. Excellent interpersonal
& communication skills (written & verbal). Highly developed negotiation and
conflict management skills. Strategic and analytical skills. Research and policy
analysis skills. Financial management and project/programme management
skills. Good computer literacy skills. Personal Attributes: The incumbent must
be assertive and self-driven, innovative and creative, client orientated and
customer focused, solution orientated and able to work under stressful
situations.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for developing, coordinating, facilitating and
providing strategic support for the monitoring of the implementation of Priority
3: Building a Capable, Ethical and Developmental State, in alignment with the
Medium-Term Development Plan (MTDP) and the National Development Plan
(NDP). The roles include developing intervention strategies and
implementation plans to strengthen government performance, as well as
coordinating capacity development programmes to promote the effective
application of Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation (PM&E) policies,
frameworks, systems, tools and guidelines across government. Key
responsibilities include contributing to planning and evaluation activities related
to the implementation of national priorities; monitoring the performance and
accountability of sector departments and the implementation of Cabinet
decisions and remedial actions arising from Priority 3 progress reports; and
analysing Strategic Plans; Annual Performance Plans (APPs), and budget
allocations to assess alignment with the MTDP and NDP. The incumbent will
provide strategic technical advice and support to political principals, executive
management and governance structures on matters relating to planning,
monitoring, evaluation and institutional performance. The role further entails
developing and enhancing government–wide monitoring, reporting tools,
systems and guidelines to strengthen evidence-based planning, performance
monitoring and accountability across the public sector. The incumbent will
coordinate national and international partnerships to advance PM&E policy,
capacity development knowledge-sharing, thereby contributing to the
professionalisation of the public service and the strengthening of a capable,
ethical and developmental state. The position also requires effective
leadership, people management and oversight of managers within the
immediate span of control to ensure the achievement of organisational
objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Dyaloyi Tel No: (012) 312- 0548
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent to Recruitment28@dpme.gov.za
POST 26/123 : SENIOR CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST REF NO: 08/ 2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Public Administration/Management,
Human Resource Development. A Minimum of 8 years’ Experience in
developing, implementing and monitoring of Planning Monitoring and
Evaluation (PME) policy framework and related capacity development
strategies of which 5 years should be at a Middle/Senior Managerial Level.
NQF level 8 will be an added advantage A valid drivers-license. A good
understanding of political, planning and governance issues. Good
88
understanding of government across the three spheres and partners for
development. Knowledge of government prescripts, policies, administrative
processes, practices, and programmes. A good understanding National
Development Plan (NDP) and its implementation processes. Ability to foster
and manage effective working arrangements with other centre of government
departments and social/development partners to ensure co-ordinated and
integrated actions. Willingness to travel on a regular basis. Competencies &
Skills: Management skills including people management and empowerment,
and experience in managing multi-disciplinary teams. Ability to provide
strategic direction and leadership. The ability/experience to create an
environment for high performance culture and staff development. Ability to
manage multiple projects. Excellent interpersonal & communication skills
(written & verbal). Highly developed negotiation and conflict management
skills. Strategic and analytical skills. Research and policy analysis skills.
Financial management and project/programme management skills. Good
computer literacy skills. Personal Attributes: The incumbent must be assertive
and self-driven, innovative and creative, client orientated and customer
focused, solution orientated and able to work under stressful situations.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible to lead and co-ordinate capacity
development programme with internal and external stakeholders to strengthen
government-wide Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation (PM&E) system,
institutional PM&E system and individual PM&E capacity in line with the
Medium-Term Development Plan (MTDP) and the National Development Plan
(NDP). Provide strategic leadership on PM&E capacity development
programmes to support public sector institutions to strengthen their institutional
monitoring. Provides PM&E technical advisory support to strengthen
Government-wide monitoring, evaluation and reporting systems. Co-ordinate
partnerships for PM&E training and capacity development to contribute to
building a Capable, Ethical and developmental state. Management of
Stakeholder/Partnerships to harness diverse skills and expertise required to
professionalise PM&E practitioners. Provide professional management and
leadership in respect of the provision of the core functions and services
assigned to the position.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lehong Tel No: (012) 312- 0540
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent to Recruitment29@dpme.gov.za
POST 26/124 : HEAD OF THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL REF NO: 02/2026
Office of the Director-General
SALARY : R1 317 384 - R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package).
The remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution
to the Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may
be structured according to personal needs within the relevant framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor's Degree/ Advanced Diploma qualification NQF 7 in
Public Administration/ Office Management as recognised by SAQA, with at
least five 5 years’ experiences at Middle/Senior Managerial level in rendering
administrative and executive office support. Experience in the office of an
Executive Manager will serve as an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge of public Service Regulations, policies and procedures. Working
knowledge of the functioning of National, Provincial and Local Government.
Financial Management and Financial Directives. Knowledge of Project
Management. Knowledge of Administrative Systems and Minute Taking.
Competencies and Skills: Strategic capacity and leadership; Programme and
Project management; Financial management; Change Management;
Knowledge Management; Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem solving
and analysis; People management and empowerment; Client orientation and
customer focus; Communication skills; Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : To manage and coordinate the provisioning of executive and administrative
support services to the Director-General and the Department, and sustain good
working relationship with all internal and external stakeholders to ensure
effective flow of information inside and outside of the Department. This involves
conducting research, analyse information and compile complex documents for
the DG and scrutinise documents to determine actions/ information/ and/or
documents required. Providing an effective and efficient strategic
administrative support to the DG, compile the agenda of meetings chaired by
the DG and ensure circulation of accompanying memorandum. Co-ordinate
89
and liaise with internal and external strategic alliances and stakeholders
between the Office of the DG and other stakeholders to ensure integration of
programmes. Provide strategic management and leadership in respect of the
core functions and services assigned to the DG’s Office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr I Chappell Tel No (012) 312-0476
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent to Recruitment23@dpme.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 26/125 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PRESIDENTIAL HOTLINE REF NO: 09/2026
Directorate: Presidential Hotline
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (\NQF 6\) in the area of National
Diploma / Degree in Public Administration/ Communications, Developmental
Studies/ Humanities/ Data Analytics or related fields with at least 3 years’
relevant experience in Experience in the Monitoring and Evaluation, data
analytics, project management environment and/or administrative experience
and/or Customer care. A good understanding of government policies, M&E and
logging of cases. Competencies/Skills: The ideal candidate should possess
well developed report writing skills, research methodology and analytical skills,
sound knowledge of the Microsoft Office suite (including Excel and Power
Point) should produce good quality work, be reliable and take initiative. Should
have good interpersonal relations and communication skills, should be flexible
and have the ability to work with a team Personal attribute: The incumbent must
be assertive and self-driven, client orientated, customer focused, solution
orientated and able to work under stressful situations and the ability to maintain
high levels of confidentiality.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to support Presidential Hotline
Directorate in ensuring good quality logging of cases, effective monitoring and
support to departments and provinces and support the research, knowledge
management and communications functions. Management of case logging and
tracking function. Manage and track complaints referred to national
departments and provinces (Stakeholders). Manage research & knowledge
management and communications. Project and administration support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lehong Tel No (012) 312-0540
APPLICATIONS : can be sent to Recruitment30@dpme.gov.za
90
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF. The Department of
Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of diversity and
redress. Candidates must submit applications to recruitment5@dsbd.gov.za
and quote the reference number for the abovementioned position on the
subject line (email) when applying, i.e. “REF NO: SIA”
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered.
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission
of copies of qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will
be required to submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when
shortlisted. Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection
process. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their
social media accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 1 month of the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. In the pursuit of diversity and redress, appointments will be made
in line with the DSBD EE Plan. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement
within three months of appointment, as well as complete a financial interest
declaration form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. The
Department reserves the rights not to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note:
a new application for employment (Z83) form is applicable from 01 January
2021. The new form can be downloaded online at
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp
OTHER POST
POST 26/126 : SENIOR INTERNAL AUDITOR “REF NO: SIA”
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree or BCom Degree (NQF7) in Auditing / Accounting /
Information Systems / IT Auditing or equivalent / related as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in Internal Auditing/ Auditing financial
statements and information systems auditing including IT controls, and data
analytics and systems environments. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, and Institute of Internal
Auditors (IIA) standards and guidelines. Post Graduate qualification in Auditing,
Accounting or IT Auditing, Professional certification in Certified Information
Systems Auditor (CISA) or Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) and experience in
Auditing Financial Systems and IT environments including conducting IT audits
would be considered an added advantage. Ms Office packages. Have proven
competencies: Communication (verbal and written), Customer / Client Focus,
Service Delivery Systems, Analytical Thinking, Research Skills, Presentation
Skills, Problem-solving, Planning and organising and Data analysis.
DUTIES : Plan internal audits inclusive of but not limited to conducting business
understanding on the audit subject, risk analysis, identifying risk, considering
applicable legislative frameworks on the subject, determining audit scope the
focus areas etc. Execute internal audits by conducting control adequacy
assessments, sampling procedures, developing audit programme to be signed
off by the audit manager, executing audit procedures, communicate exceptions
to management etc. Develop a draft audit report, convene exit meeting and
present the findings of the draft report. Prepare an audit summary for the
91
various stakeholders, highlight risk areas and track process. Support audit
committee processes, maintain audit working papers and records. Coordinate
responses to internal and external stakeholders and participate in audit
administration activities.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
Tel No: (012) 394-5286/43097
92
ANNEXURE Q
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must use this link or QR code below to access DSAC E-Recruitment
System: https://erecruit.dsac.gov.za/public/login_test.php
Hand delivery: Sealed envelope addressed to Chief Director: Human Resource
Management and Development, Sechaba House, 202 Madiba Street, Pretoria
Central. Postal mail to The Chief Director: Human Resource Management and
Development, Private Bag X897, Pretoria, 0001.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026, 16:00
NOTE : Please create a user profile by completing all required personal information
and setting up your login credentials. Once registration is complete, log in to
the system and you will be directed to the “Welcome Page”. From the Welcome
Page, you may browse all vacant positions opportunities listed below.
Applicants are strongly advised to complete all information required for the
electronic Z83 form on the system before applying for any position. The Z83
form has been adopted into the system, and applications cannot be processed
unless all mandatory fields are completed. After completing your profile and
Z83 information, you may apply for any relevant advertised position through
the system. Ensure that your application is fully completed and submitted
before the closing date, as incomplete or late applications will not be
considered. Once submitted, the system will provide a confirmation message
indicating that your application has been successfully received. The e-
Recruitment portal is also accessible via smartphones and other mobile
devices. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified copies of ID, Driver’s
licence (where required) and qualifications on or before the interview. Should
you be in possession of any foreign qualification(s), it must be accompanied by
an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA);
Applicants must be South African citizens. Shortlisted candidates must avail
themselves for a virtual or in-person panel interview at a date and time
determined by DSAC. The applicant should make own arrangement for access
to internet connectivity and equipment for this purpose. Applicants must note
that pre-employment checks and references will be conducted once they are
shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to a positive outcome on these
checks, including security clearance, security vetting, qualification/study
verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset record check, previous
employment verification and criminal record. If an applicant wishes to withdraw
an application, it must be done in writing. We encourage all applicants to
declare any criminal and/or negative credit records. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and sign an annual performance agreement. The
Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity targets. It is
the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of these posts. The Department reserves the right not to
make an appointment and to use other recruitment processes, thus
withdrawing this advert by notice on its communication channels. If you have
not been contacted within three months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. We
thank all applicants for their interest.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/127 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN AND JOB EVALUATION
REF NO: DSAC-01/07/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration salary package), consists
of a basic salary, Sate’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund (13% of Basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be structured in
terms of applicable rules Middle Management Services Guidelines
93
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF 4 or equivalent
qualification. Minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Management Services / Organisation
and Work Study / Operations Management/Production Management/
Organisational Development/ Industrial Psychology or any relevant
Organisational Development qualification. Job Evaluation Certificate and
PERSAL Establishment Certificate as additional requirements. 3-5 years
relevant experience, at least 3 years at an Assistant Director level in
organisational development, job evaluation and or any relevant organisation
development environment. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, etc. Knowledge of Job
evaluation and job grading processes. Knowledge and understanding of DPSA
directives, circulars, PSCBC Resolutions etc. applicable to organisational
development/change management environment. Knowledge and
understanding of Organisational Design principles and techniques.
Understanding of Code of Remuneration (CORE). Knowledge of Computer
software (Excel, OrgPlus, Visio, PowerPoint, etc). Knowledge and
understanding of Diversity management. Knowledge and understanding of
business process management. Good communication and Interpersonal
relation. Planning and organising skills. Problem solving skills. Interviewing and
analytical thinking skills. Project Management skills. Facilitation and
Presentation skills. Computer literate. Attention to detail. Ability to work
independently and as a team. Ability to keep classified information.
DUTIES : To manage and provide organisational development and design services to
support organisational effectiveness within the Department. Manage
organisational development and structure review process: Lead organisational
design and structure review processes. Manage the development, review, and
alignment of organisational structures with approved establishment
requirements and CoE provisions. Develop organisational structure reports,
recommendations, and submissions for management approval. Monitor the
implementation of approved organisational structures and related
organisational development interventions. Conduct organisational functionality
and mandate analysis. Authorise the creation, amendment, and abolishment
of posts on PERSAL in line with approved organisational structures. Manage
and monitor alignment between approved organisational structures,
establishment information, and PERSAL records. Manage and monitor job
evaluation processes: Oversee the implementation of job evaluation and job
grading processes in accordance with DPSA policies and frameworks. Ensure
newly created, revised and existing positions are evaluated and graded in line
with approved job evaluation systems. Manage the coordination of job
evaluation panel meetings. Oversee the monitor of job evaluation register and
implementation of approved grading outcomes. Provide technical advice and
guidance on job evaluation and grading matters. Ensure approved job
evaluation and grading outcomes are accurately implemented and updated on
PERSAL. Manage job description development and review processes:
Oversee the development, review, and quality assurance of job descriptions
aligned to organisational structures and operational requirements. Ensure all
employees have approved and signed job descriptions in the department.
Oversee the maintenance of the job description database and related records.
Manage Business Process Improvement Initiatives: Oversee the business
process mapping, analysis, and improvement initiatives. Oversee the
development and review of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and
business process documentation. Facilitate the identification of process gaps,
inefficiencies, and operational improvement opportunities. Monitor the
implementation of approved business process improvements. Leveraging AI
tools to analyse organisational structures, spans of control and reporting lines.
Supporting AI-assisted business process mapping and process optimisation.
Developing governance frameworks for the responsible and ethical use of AI
within Organisational Design and Development. Develop reports and
recommendations on business process improvement within the department.
Manage Administrative and Governance Support Services: Coordinate
administrative, reporting, and governance processes within the organisational
development unit. Prepare reports, submissions, presentations, and memos
related to organisational development processes and procedures. Manage the
coordination of meetings, workshops, consultations, and stakeholder
94
engagements. Monitor compliance with organisational development policies,
procedures, and legislative prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Lamati Tel No: (012) 441 3831
POST 26/128 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO: DSAC-
02/07/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (an all-inclusive remuneration salary package), consists
of a basic salary, Sate’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund (13% of Basic salary) and a flexible portion that may be structured in
terms of applicable rules Middle Management Services Guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Matric Certificate / Grade 12 Certificate / NQF 4 or
equivalent qualification. Minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/
Degree (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Monitoring and Evaluation/
Public Administration / Public Management / Public Governance / Internal
Auditing / Statistics / Data Management or any relevant Monitoring and
Evaluation qualification. 3-5 years relevant experience and (at least 3 years at
an Assistant Director level) in monitoring and evaluation environment.
Knowledge of business and management principles. Knowledge of strategic
planning, resource allocation and human resources. Knowledge of Public
Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of Project Management. Problem
solving and analysis skills. Good Communication and Interpersonal relations.
Computer literacy. Planning & Organizing skills. Presentation skills Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Ability to work with different stakeholders on
performance information matters. Strategic capability and leadership.
Accountability and Ethical Conduct. Change management. Teamwork. Ability
to work under pressure.
DUTIES : To develop and maintain performance monitoring, evaluation and reporting
framework systems and procedure for the department. Consolidate and review
the develop of Quarterly Performance Reports: Analysis and review quarterly
input submitted by programmes. Participate in the Quarterly and Departmental
performance review session. Finalise the quarterly performance report and
facilitate the sign off by the DG or delegated official. Facilitate the submission
of reports to Internal audit, DPME and National Treasury. Review draft monthly
report on targets that are not achieved. Conduct refresher workshop with
programmes on the reporting guidelines. Review and consolidate quarterly
performance presentations for Audit and Portfolio Committee. Review and
consolidate input for ENE mid-term report. Consolidate and review the
development of Annual Performance Report: Review draft annual performance
report. Review the Dashboard report on verification sources as outlined in the
TID and Standard Operating Procedures. Participate in the Quarterly and
Departmental performance review session. Facilitate the submission of the
Annual performance review report to AGSA. Facilitate the appointment of the
Service Provider and approval of the cover page. Facilitate the tabling of the
Annual Report in Parliament. Review and consolidate Annual performance
presentations for Audit and Portfolio Committee. Provide national oversight on
provincial quarterly reporting on Electronic Quarterly Performance Reporting
System of Department of Planning Monitoring and Evaluation: Review of the
provincial reports on Electronic Quarterly Performance Reporting system of
DPME. Submit national oversight comments to DPME and provincial
department of Sport, Arts and Culture through eQPRS. Compile a draft report
on reviewed Departmental Annual Performance Plans and Standard Operating
Procedures (inclusive of its technical indicator description): Compiling a draft
report on reviewed APP, TIDs and Strategic Plan covering the following;
SMART principles of indicators and targets. Proposed verifications sources in
the TID. Review the previous FY Standard Operating Procedures and propose
changes where necessary. Consolidate and review the development of
quarterly operational plan reports: Develop reporting template on operational
plan. Circulate the reporting template to all programmes in the Department.
Receive and review operational plan reports submitted by programmes.
Generate operational plan reports for the department. Review and consolidate
quarterly performance presentations for programmes. Facilitate the
submission of reports to programmes for noting and improvement.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Khumalo Tel No: (012) 441 3669
95
POST 26/129 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF NO:
DSAC-03/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF 4 or equivalent
qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Monitoring and Evaluation/ Public
Administration/ Public Management/ Public Governance/ Internal Auditing/
Statistics/ Data Management or any relevant Monitoring and Evaluation
qualification. 2-3 years relevant experience and (at least 2 years at a Senior/
Practitioner/ Officer level) in data analysis, data auditing, monitoring, evaluation
and reporting environment. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act, PFMA and relevant legislations. Knowledge
and understanding of Monitoring and Evaluation Frameworks. Knowledge and
understanding of data collection and data analysis. Knowledge of departmental
policies and procedures. Research skills. Facilitation and presentation skills.
Problem solving and analytical thinking skills. Planning and organising skills.
Good communication and Interpersonal relations. Change management skills.
Computer literacy. Ability to work in a Team and independently. Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : To provide support for monitoring and evaluating departmental programmes.
and projects. Assisting in the coordination of the development and review of
the Departmental Quarterly Performance Reports: Coordinate and send out
meeting invites for branch review sessions as well as the Departmental review
session. Prepare agendas for quarterly review sessions. Prepare quarterly
reporting templates for relevant Programmes. Make inputs for TID and targets
in the Barnowl system. Review evidence submitted by relevant Programmes.
Prepare feedback report to be used as discussion document during quarterly
review sessions for relevant Programmes. Capture quarterly report for relevant
Programmes. on the DPME EQPR system. Prepare minutes for review
session for relevant Programmes and the Departmental review session.
Prepare demographic reports for relevant indicators. Respond to audit queries
from Internal Audit. Prepare statistical report for women, youth and people with
disabilities. Prepare a quarterly deviation register to report progress on targets
that were not achieved. Coordinate submission of beneficiary details for
projects under relevant programmes. Prepare PMER presentation. Facilitate
the development of monitoring and evaluation reports: Prepare the annual
report review report template for relevant programmes. Review evidence
submitted by the relevant Programmes. Prepare feedback report to be used as
discussion document during review sessions for the relevant Programmes.
Capture quarterly report for the relevant Programmes on the DPME EQPR
system. Respond to audit queries from Internal Audit. Prepare
documents/information for submission to AGSA in response to the requests for
information. Coordinate SCM processes for appointment of a service provider
that will develop the annual report. Develop the task directive for the
appointment of a service provider. Develop a workplan for annual report
project. Coordinate and review annual report inputs from various units in the
Department. Liaise with service provider for the design and layout of the annual
report. Review the annual report from the service provider and provide further
inputs/ changes/ corrections. Assist in the development of the ENE Mid-Term
report: Receive reporting template from the relevant unit. Assist in coordinating
inputs for Estimated of National Expenditure (ENE) Mid Term report from the
relevant programmes. Consolidate, capture and verify performance
information on the template. Submit to the budget unit. Coordinate
development and review of standard operating procedures: Assist with the
development and updating of the M&E database / systems. Assist in reviewing
SOPs for the relevant programmes. Develop SOP report (tracking tool).
Review of SOP evidence for the relevant programmes. Coordinate the
development of criteria/selection document for the relevant Programmes.
Develop APP AND TID assessment report. Verify and validate data captured
on the M&E databases and system. Assist in the development of quarterly
operational plan reports: Assist with the review of data Management
guidelines. Develop quarterly reporting templates for the relevant programmes.
Review evidence submitted by the relevant Programmes. Develop operational
plan reports for the relevant Programmes. Develop operational plan
presentations for the relevant Programmes.
96
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Khumalo Tel No: (012) 441 3669
POST 26/130 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN AND JOB
EVALUATION REF NO: DSAC-04/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/ Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF level 4 or
equivalent qualification. Minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/
Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Management Services /
Organisation and Work Study / Operations Management / Production
Management/ Organisational Development/ Industrial Psychology or any
relevant Organisational Development qualification. Job Evaluation Certificate
and PERSAL Establishment Certificate are additional requirements. 2-3 years
relevant experience (at least 2 years at a Senior/Officer/ Practitioner level) in
organisational development, job evaluation and change management or any
relevant organisation development environment. Knowledge of Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, etc.
Knowledge of Job evaluation and job grading processes. Knowledge and
understanding of DPSA directives, circulars, PSCBC Resolutions etc.
applicable to organisational development/change management environment.
Knowledge and understanding of Organisational Design principles and
techniques. Understanding of Code of Remuneration (CORE). Knowledge of
Computer software (Excel, OrgPlus, Visio, PowerPoint, etc). Knowledge and
understanding of Diversity management. Good communication and
Interpersonal relation. Planning and organising skills. Problem solving skills.
Interviewing and analytical thinking skills. Project Management skills.
Facilitation and Presentation skills. Computer literate. Attention to detail. Ability
to work independently and as a team. Ability to keep classified information.
DUTIES : To implement an organisational development design and job evaluation
support services. Monitor and coordinate the development and review of job
descriptions: Coordinate the development, review, and maintenance of job
descriptions as mandated by the DPSA or when necessary. Develop Job
descriptions in line with the departmental structure. Identify job profiles to be
developed and reviewed. Quality assures job descriptions for advertising.
Conduct benchmarking of job descriptions in line with DPSA directives. Provide
advisory and technical support to employees. Ensure all newly appointed
employees have signed job descriptions. Maintain and update the job
descriptions database. Assist with the development and review of job
description policy, frameworks and guidelines. Coordinate the review and
redesign processes and Change Management interventions: Coordinate
organisational design, restructuring, and work study processes. Facilitate
organisational functionality assessments. Collect, analyse, and consolidate
organisational data to support organisational design and structural alignment
processes. Coordinate the implementation of approved organisational
structures and related change interventions. Facilitate the creation, abolition,
and amendment of posts on PERSAL in line with approved organisational
structures. Participate in the development and review of organisational
structures, service delivery models, and establishment requirements. Prepare
organisational design reports, presentation, recommendations, and
submissions for approval. Support the implementation of change management
initiatives arising from organisational restructuring and transformation
processes. Coordinate and provide secretariat support to awareness session,
meeting and forums. Monitor and conduct Job Evaluation process: Coordinate
and facilitate the implementation of job evaluation processes within the
department. Facilitate and establish the nomination and training of panel
members within the department. Analyse, evaluate, and grade posts in a job
according to the Public Service Job Evaluation System. Ensure provision of
secretariat and administrative services to the job evaluation panel meeting.
Identify and prioritise jobs to be evaluated. Maintain and monitor job evaluation
register in line with the approved job evaluation outcomes. Conduct
benchmarking of job descriptions and grading of levels in line with DPSA
directives. Facilitate the implementation of DPSA directives, policies, and
frameworks relating to job evaluation and grading. Coordinate the development
and review of JE and job grading policy. Facilitate awareness sessions,
workshops, and capacity-building initiatives on job evaluation systems,
policies, and directives. Conduct and coordinate Organisational functionality
97
assessments within the department. Coordinate organisational functionality
and operational efficiency assessments. Gatheranalyse, and consolidate
information and reports to support organisational assessment processes.
Monitor progress and follow up on organisational improvement actions and
recommendations. Participate in steering committee meetings and provide
administrative and secretariat support where required. Coordinate meetings,
information sessions and provide secretariat support. Compile information on
the DPSA organisational assessment and reporting templates. Identify
organisational gaps, inefficiencies, and improvement opportunities to enhance
service delivery. Utilise AI tools to draft organisational reports, Support AI-
assisted business process mapping and workflow optimisation initiatives.
Evaluate opportunities to automate routine organisational reporting and
administrative processes using approved digital technologies. Keep abreast of
emerging AI technologies and recommend practical applications that improve
organisational effectiveness and service delivery Coordinate the development
and implementation of business processes management: Coordinate the
development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s) for the approved
departmental operational plan. Coordinate the compilation list of internal
Business Processes for each unit. Facilitate the analysis and mapping of
business processes of approved SOPs of the approved operational plan.
Coordinate the compilation and maintenance of departmental business
process registers. Obtain relevant approvals for developed SOPs and business
process documentation. Compile approved departmental business process
reports. To manage and provide organisational development and design
services to support organisational effectiveness within the Department.
legislative prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Lamati Tel No: (012) 441 3831
POST 26/131 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
DSAC-05/07/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF 4 or equivalent
qualification Minimum Three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6) /Degree
(NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA in Human Resource Management/
Public Management and Administration/ Industrial Psychology or any relevant
Human Resource Management qualification. PERSAL Administration
Certificate and Leave Administration Certificate are additional requirements-3
years relevant experience (at least 2 years at an HR Officer/ HR Practitioner
level) in recruitment & selection, conditions of service, employee benefits and
administration or any human resource administration environment. Knowledge
and understanding of the Human Resource Management Framework.
Knowledge of HR policies, procedures and implementation strategies.
Knowledge and understanding of relevant Directives. Knowledge of Public
Service Resolutions, Public Service Act and relevant legislation and prescripts.
Knowledge and understanding of PERSAL System. Good communication and
interpersonal relations. Problem solving skills. Analytical skills. Computer and
digital literacy. Numeracy skills. Planning and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Facilitate the administration of Recruitment and Selection processes Facilitate
the administration of conditions of services, remuneration and employee
benefits. Facilitate the processing of appointments, promotions, and transfers
to the Department, Facilitate the process of Terminations of Service and
Transfers from the Department to another. Provide overall supervision and
guidance to subordinates. Contribute toward the digitization and automation of
HR processes and systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NP Maloka Tel No: (012) 441 3730
98
ANNEXURE R
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za Other related documentation such as copies of
qualifications, identity documents, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. A pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of government is required prior to
the appointment. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates
will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security
clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police
clearance certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The
Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AFRICA BILATERALS RELATIONS/AFRICA
MULTILATERALS REF NO: 070826/01
Branch: Provincial And Entity Governance and International Cooperation
Cd: International Water Cooperation
Dir: Africa Relations
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in International Relations / Political
Science. Five (5) years of experience in international relations. Knowledge and
understanding of international politics and the difference between multilateral
and bilateral agreements. Knowledge of developing policies and their
procedures. Knowledge and understanding of research. Understanding of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of bilateral/multilateral
management issues. Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative action
guidelines and laws. Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and
systems. Understanding of departmental policies and procedures. Problem
solving and analysis. People and diversity management. Client orientation and
customer focus. Effective communication skills both (verbal and written).
Accountability and ethical conduct.
99
DUTIES : Assist in the implementation of international agreements with priority countries.
Conduct research and compile briefing documents, position papers and reports
to support bilateral engagements Facilitate international stakeholder
engagements, support relevant stakeholder consultations, maintain relations
with foreign governments, Embassies, High Commissions, and entities.
Facilitate and participate in bilateral fora, support strategic interventions and
formation of partnerships for international water cooperation. Drafting of
relevant documents such as submissions, letters, briefing notes. Assist with the
establishment of new strategic partnerships.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MA Sithole Tel No: (012) 336 8588
POST 26/133 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION GRADE A REF
NO: 070826/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R518 769 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Hartbeespoort
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant Honours Degree in Environmental Science or relevant qualification
at NQF level 8) coupled with a minimum of three (3) years working experience
post the required qualification. The disclosure of valid unexpired driver’s
license. Experience in any of the following fields will service as an added
advantage: Environmental Science / Water Resource Management /
Environmental Law/Natural Resource Economics / Occupational Health and
Safety and Construction Health and Safety. Professional registration as an
Environmental Assessment Practitioner (EAP) will be an added advantage.
Knowledge in compliance monitoring and enforcement. Working knowledge of
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no. 36 of 1998) and related policies. Working
knowledge of relevant Environmental Management legislation and related
policies. Working knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety Act and
construction regulations. Knowledge and understanding of Integrated Water
Resources Management. Understanding of PFMA and Treasury regulations
16. Knowledge of safety of Sport and Recreation events in terms of the
National Water Act. Ability to review technical and scientific reports and provide
recommendations. Exposure to construction environment management,
technical report writing skills. Ability to provide technical and scientific support
to Department of Water and Sanitation units and other government
departments. Professional judgement. Good communication, presentation and
networking skills. People management skills, planning, organising, conflicts
and change management. Excellent problem solving and analysis. The ability
to work independently, to interact with communities, professional service
providers (PSPs) and planning partners in the water sector. Willing to travel
extensively and work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Provide support and oversight to three Area offices within the Northern
Operations, namely: Hartbeespoort Area Office, Groblersdal Area Office and
Tzaneen Area office at Technical Services sub-directorate. To provide
integrated environmental services towards the development, maintenance,
rehabilitation and refurbishment of bulk water infrastructure including
operations and maintenance projects in Civil, Mechanical and Electrical for
three Area Offices. This includes amongst others, the undertaking of
environmental legislative screening assessment and compile terms of
reference for the appointment of environmental assessment practitioners and
related services. Compilation of environmental management plans. Provide
environmental, health and safety inputs during the planning and construction
phase of projects Conduct environmental audits for bulk water infrastructure
and operations and maintenance projects. Conduct site inspections, undertake
both routine and special inspections and generate technical and monitoring
reports. Assist in developing and implementation of commercial recreational
and recreational water use policies and guidelines. Implementation of other
related legislation dealing with access and use of State Dams. Give inputs on
applications for commercial recreational water use at State Dams especially
with regards to PFMA and Treasury Regulations 16 requirements. Conduct
routine monitoring for GWWs under the management of Northern Operations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr IR Mmutloane Tel No: (012) 200 9000
100
POST 26/134 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (HRM) REF NO: 070826/03
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations
Dir: Operations Central
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Potchefstroom
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma or Degree in Public Management/ Administration/ Human
Resources Management or relevant qualification. One (1) to (3) three years
relevant experience in Administration or Human Resources. Computer
Literacy. PERSAL Certificates. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Knowledge and experience in HR processes and legislation. Basic
financial management. Knowledge of PFMA and management skills. Problem
solving skills and analysis. People and diversity management. Client orientated
and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and written)
Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of Human resource administration practices, HRA, HRD, Registry, Recruitment
and selection. Handle Human resource administration enquiries HRA, HRD,
registry, recruitment and selection. Supervisor human resources staff. Manage
and Administer personnel management and administration function within the
Area Office. Manage and Administer Human Resources function and office
support services. Manage and Administer HRD, training coordination of PMDS.
Manage and administer leave management. Manage and Administer service
conditions. Recruitment, Selection and Appointment. Provide HR and policy
advisory service to all employees within the area office. Ensure that all reports
are submitted within the financial year closure. Manage, supervise and develop
staff within Corporate Services. Manage and administer Corporate Services
functions within the Area office. Manage and administer transport and travel in
line with departmental policies. Manage and administer corporate services
budget and give budget inputs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HG Mbele Tel No: (018) 294 9300
NOTE : Candidates must complete a practical and theoretical test. Please be advised
that the office will transition to a SANWRIA agency.
POST 26/135 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: 070826/04
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: FS
Cd: Provincial Operations: Free State
Sd: Hydrological Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate or equivalent. Previous administrative experience
will serve as an added advantage. Basic understanding of Batho Pele
Principles. Basic knowledge of Microsoft Excel, Word and PowerPoint.
Knowledge of clerical functions, practices, as well as the ability to capture data,
operate a computer and collate administrative statistics. Basic knowledge and
insight of Human Resources prescripts. Knowledge and understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of working environment. Interpersonal relations. Flexibility.
Teamwork. Basic knowledge of problem solving and Analysis. People and
Diversity Management. Client Orientation and Customer Focus.
Communication. Accountability and ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Provide administrative Support to the Directorate: Manage incoming and
outgoing documents. Coordinate the logistics of meetings, taking minutes at
meetings and distribution of documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Assist with the collation of monthly reports and presentations as
required by the Director. Keep and maintain the asset register of the
Directorate. Maintain a leave register for the Directorate. Handle telephone
accounts for the Directorate. Hydrological data administration: Update
Information on OSIRIS database and N-drive location. Assistance with
hydrological data processing: Assist with the capturing and supply of daily
readings. Assist with data capturing on HYDSTRA. Provide Financial
Administrative Support which will include requesting BAS reports, capturing
S&T claims and capturing invoices for the Directorate monthly. Liaise with
internal and external stakeholders in relation to the procurement of goods and
services. Capture and update expenditure of the Directorate. Check the
101
correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and submit them to the
manager for approval. Assist with document logistics between the office of the
Director, other Directorates and the office of the Provincial Head. Assist the
Director with travelling arrangements. Assist with the administration related to
personnel matters, such as the scanning and saving of documents before it is
submitted to Human Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Lloyd Tel No: (051) 405 9000
102
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Directions to applicants: Applications must only be done via the online
recruitment platform for the Department at: https://ihealth.fshealth.gov.za/e-
Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. The application must
indicate the correct Job title, the office where the position is advertised and the
Reference number as stated in the advert. Failure by the applicant to fully
complete the application form will lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. Applications filed by hand on the Z83 will
unfortunately not be considered. Should you be in a possession of foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Dual citizenship holders must
provide the Police Clearance certificate from country of origin when shortlisted.
All non-SA Citizens will be required to submit a copy of proof of South African
permanent residence when shortlisted. Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements will not be considered. Suitable candidates will
be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, financial checks,
qualification verification, citizenship checks, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered. The
Department does not accept applications via fax or post. Failure to upload and
submit all the requested documents will result in the application not being
considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will be
expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement
within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo a security
clearance three (3) months after appointments. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS shall undertake two pre-assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on posts technical and
generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/136 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1-2 (PNB1) REF NO: MMD/
CNP/13/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R522 825 per annum
CENTRE : Mangaung Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12 or, equivalent qualification, plus Basic R425 qualification i.e
Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification allows registration with
SANC as a Professional. Current registration with South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing basic nursing
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with SANC in case of
Government Notice No. R212 in the relevant specialty’s minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in general nurse. Skills And Knowledge:
Planning and organizing, effective communication skills, coordination skills,
collaboration skills, computer literacy skills, time management skills, problem
solving skills, numeracy skills, report writing skills, facilitation skills. ability to
build and work as a team member.
DUTIES : Provision of quality comprehensive community health care. Provision of
administration services. Provision of educational services. Usage of equipment
and machinery. Research responsibility.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TA Mokoqo Assistant Director: Admin and Support Cell: 067 422 5555
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when apply.
103
POST 26/137 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: MMD/
ASD/12/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Mangaung Metro District
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree or equivalent tertiary qualification in Financial Management on NQF
level 7. A 3 years relevant supervisory experience in Financial Accounting.
Knowledge and understanding of the legal framework, inclusive of the PFMA
and Treasury Regulations, policy coupled with the applicable norms and
standards. Computer literacy, good communication and management skills.
skills and knowledge: Attributes: Good interpersonal relations, independent,
assertiveness, adaptive, confidentiality, integrity, discipline, accurate, friendly,
and trustworthy. Ability to work under pressure. Competencies: Verbal and
written communication skills, problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Collection and recording of revenue: Cashier, banking service and electronic
payments. Debts management and monitoring and reporting on revenue.
Expenditure management: Compensation of employees, Goods and services,
Transfers and subsidies. Reporting. Supervise employees to ensure an
effective financial accounting service. This would, inter alia entail the following:
General supervision of employees, allocate duties and quality control of the
work delivered by supervisors, Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all
aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct and discipline of
supervisors. Ensure that all supervisors are trained and developed to be able
to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop,
implement and monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient and
effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. PI Kgaile Deputy Director: Financial Accounting Email:
KgailePI@fshealth.gov.za Cell: 0726002476
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
104
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : should be submitted strictly online at the following E-Recruitment portal:
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. No hand-delivered, faxed, or emailed applications
will be accepted. For assistance with online applications please email your
query to healthjobqueries@gauteng.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Kindly note that no payment of any kind is required when applying for posts
advertised by the Gauteng Department of Health. The Department reserves
the right not to fill any advertised posts. Applications should be accompanied
by a fully completed and signed new Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service Department or on the internet at www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. The
new Z83 form must be fully completed and signed by the applicant. The
following must be considered in relation to the completion of the Z83 by
applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D must be completed. Leave
the following question blank if they are not in possession of such: “If your
profession or occupation requires official registration, provide date and
particulars of registration”. Application without proof of a new Z83 application
form and detailed CV will be disqualified. Applicants must indicate the post
reference number on their applications. Shortlisted candidates will receive
communication from HR unit to submit certified copies of educational
qualifications and other relevant documents not older than 6 months on or
before the day of the interview). Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal checks,
citizenship checks, qualification verification, company directorship, social
media, financial record checks, reference checks) must be conducted prior
appointment. Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification must furnish
the Department with an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applicants with foreign qualifications remain
responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Preference will be given to South
African citizens. The performance of normal overtime is not mandatory,
however it will be based on the operational needs of the hospitals. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/138 : HEAD OF CLINICAL UNI (INTERNAL MEDICINE) REF NO: REFS/050270
(X1 POST)
Re- advertisement
SALARY : Grade 1: R2 168 145 per annum, (all inclusive)
Grade 2: R2 370 741 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Leratong Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualification that allows registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Master of Medicine in Internal Medicine and Fellowship of the
college of South Africa). Minimum of 3 years’ experience after registration with
HPCSA as a Medical specialist. MBCHB and Current registration with HPCSA
as a specialist. Be able to work commuted overtime. Computer literacy and
additional experience in management or supervision will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Clinical leadership and Governance in the Internal Medicine department. Co-
ordinate all clinical and administration services in the department. Improved
patient experience of care. Maintain satisfactory clinical, professional, and
ethical standards related to these services. Reduction of waiting time of
Operations. Ensure effective and efficient specialist services to contribute to
optimal and quality health care in line with the vison, mission, and values of
Gauteng department of health. Ensure compliance to SOP’s and clinical
Protocols. Supervision and effective utilization of medical staff. Responsible for
training and teaching of Medical Interns, junior doctors, and medical students.
Assist in the implementation of DOH policies and programmes. Full
participation in Quality assurance, management of PSI’s and complaints.
105
Participate in academic activities in the hospital and in the cluster. The potential
candidate should be highly skilled in performing clinical work and take part in
commuted overtime.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Serobatse Tel No: (011) 411-3563 / Ms M Nkuna Tel No: (011) 411-
3677/3516
POST 26/139 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST (RADIOLOGY) REF NO: REFS/050278 (X1 POST)
Re-advertisement
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum, (all inclusive)
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum, (all inclusive)
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum, (all inclusive)
CENTRE : Leratong Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery plus MMED (Radiology) or
FCEM (SA). Registration Certificate with the HPCSA as a Radiology Specialist.
Grade 1: No experience required. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in a normal Specialty. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
as a Medical Specialist in a normal Specialty. A resuscitation course such as
APLS (or PALS), ACLS, ATLS will be added advantage. Ability to manage a
team of junior and senior doctors. Ability to establish excellent working
relationships with all the disciplines teams. Good leadership skills, excellent
communication (verbal and written) skills, conflict resolution and good
interpersonal skills. The successful candidate must be adaptable, disciplined,
and self-confident. The candidate must be able to work independently and
under pressure and beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team.
Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of legislation, policies
and procedure pertaining to health care users. Computer Literacy. Experience
in the public sector would be an advantage. Candidate will be expected to
perform commuted overtime as per service needs.
DUTIES : Ensuring that there is protocol for the management of Radiology Patients and
that there is compliance to the protocol and guidelines. Co-ordinate all clinical
and administrative duties within the Department. Involvement in hospital
committees and liaison with other departments within the hospital. Staff training
theoretical and skills performance of medical doctors and allied medical
disciplines at the hospital and referring hospitals. SOPs development and
implementation. Provision of clinical support and outreach programs. To
participate, support and promote research relevant to Radiology department.
Ability to initiate and conduct research will be an advantage. Be a role model
for students and staff. Perform duties assigned by the medical manager.
Maintain quality assurance standards and other Departmental policies.
Provision of efficient Radiology outpatient services. Reduction of waiting time
and backlogs. Ensure effective specialist services to contribute to optimal and
quality health care in line with the vision, mission, and values of Gauteng
department of health. Ensure compliance to SOP’s and clinical Protocols.
Supervision and effective utilization of medical staff. Responsible for training
and teaching of Medical Interns, junior doctors, and medical students. Attend
all relevant meetings. Attend appropriate CME activities. Comply with the
Performance Management and Development System (contracting, quarterly
reviews and final assessment. Ensure an effective outreach to District
hospitals. Participate in academic activities in the hospital and in the cluster.
Clinical Governance and Risk Management. Full participation in Quality
Assurance Programs, prevention/management of PSI’s and complaints.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Serobatse Tel No: (011) 411-3563 / Ms M Nkuna Tel No: (011) 411-
3677/3516
POST 26/140 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING GENERAL PNA 7 (HAST, STEPDOWN
& TB UNIT) REF NO: REFS/050309 (X1 POST)
Re-Advertisement
SALARY : R720 819 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Leratong Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma / Degree in Nursing as accredited with the SANC in terms of
government Notice R425 that allows the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
minimum of 08 years appropriate / recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with South African Nursing Council in
106
General Nursing. Must have driver’s license. At least 3 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate / recognizable experience at
management level (HAST / TB Coordinator or Operational Manager level).
Recognisable experience in clinical HAST & TB services. Current registration
with SANC. Diploma / Degree in Nursing Management and computer literacy
is mandatory. Knowledge of health, Nursing and Public Service legislation is
recommended. Strong leadership, good communication and sound
interpersonal skills are necessary.
DUTIES : Effective implementation of the TB recovery plan. Facilitate effective
collaboration with all stake holders and district management teams in executing
TB activities. Implementation of HAST strategy, plan in line with the 95,95;95
TB and HIV strategy. Be able to facilitate the implementation of 1.1 Million
Retention to Care and End TB project. Implementation of the TB strategy
interventions whilst monitoring the acceleration of TB treatment initiation for
adults and children. Monitoring and analysis of the 95x95x95 TB program
cascade. Collaborate and facilitate the development of the District TB program
and Business plan. Effective monitoring of Budget allocation to ensure that
resources are adequately implemented at all levels. Improving access of T B,
DR-TB and HIV program. Support and monitor quality screening and finding
missing cases. To monitor TB treatment completion rate, death and LTFU,
Implementation of TB/HIV integrated Health Information System. Liaise with
Local Government, different levels of health, community structures to improve
service delivery. Conducting quarterly reviews for performance monitoring in
the province. Take part in the Gauteng Province Turnaround Strategy, Primary
Health care engineering. Display High level of organizational, initiative, and
problem-solving skills. Coordinate and facilitate effective, efficient, and
sustainable financial planning and control of conditional for TB/HIV/STI
integration. Participate in realization of the Hospital Operational Plan. Monitor
performance using Performance Management and Development System.
Ensure implementation and promotion of QA programs (complaint and patient
safety management), infection Prevention and Control and Health and Safety
principles. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the National core
standards and Ideal Hospital Realization and Maintenance Framework. Ensure
availability of monthly, quarterly, annual performance reports and operational
plans. Participate in after hours, night supervision shifts and weekends as
delegated implement relevant recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Serobatse Tel No: (011) 411-3563 / Ms M Nkuna Tel No: (011) 411-
3677/3516
POST 26/141 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER SPECIALTY OPERATING THEATRE/CSSD
REF NO: REFS/050400 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R720 819 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Leratong Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Nursing as a Professional / Registered Nurse accredited
with the SANC in terms of Government Notice 425 or equivalent Post basic
qualification with the duration of at least 1 year Diploma in Medical& Surgical
Operating Theatre /Perioperative Nursing Science in accordance with R212. A
minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least
5 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable
experience after obtaining the one year post basic qualification Medical&
Surgical Operating Theatre /Perioperative Nursing Science. Diploma/Degree
in Nursing Management will be an added advantage and computer literacy
mandatory. Knowledge of Health, Nursing and Public Service Legislation is
recommended. Strong leadership, good communication and sound
interpersonal skills are necessary.
DUTIES : Provide effective overall supervision and leadership for staff in the area in line
with all relevant legislation and prescripts. Co-ordination of optimal, holistically
specialised nursing care provided within set standards and a professional/legal
framework. Effectively manage the utilisation and supervision of resources.
Effective monitoring and management of absenteeism-Coordination of the
provision of effective training and research. Secure and allocate resources and
budget to achieve workplace objectives. Provision of effective support to
Nursing Services. Maintaining professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Initiate programmes that will ensure quality nursing care in the
specialised area. Ensure implementation and promotion of Quality Assurance
107
programmes (complaints and patient safety management), Infection
Prevention and Control and Health and Safety principles. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the National Core Standards & Ideal Hospital
Realization and Maintenance Framework. Responsible for the implementation
of disciplinary measures Participate in after hours and night supervision shifts
as delegated. Implement relevant recommendations and priorities of the
National Strategic Plan for Nurse education, training and Practice. Participate
in realisation of the Hospital Operational Plan. Assist in ensuring that monthly,
quarterly, annual performance reports and operational plans are available
Monitor performance using Management and Development System.
Participate in after hours, night supervision, shifts and weekends as delegated
and implement relevant recommendations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Serobatse Tel No: (011) 411-3563 / Ms M Nkuna Tel No: (011) 411-
3677/3516
POST 26/142 : CLINICAL PROGRAM COORDINATOR (HUMAN RESOURCE OHS) REF
NO: REFS/050281 (X1 POST)
Re-Advertisement
SALARY : Grade 1: R571 161 per annum
CENTRE : Leratong Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12 or equivalent/NQF level/. A R425 qualification (i.e., diploma / degree
in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a
professional nurse. Current registration with SANC. A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing, of which 3 years must
be relevant experience in Occupational Health and Safety environment. A post
basic nursing qualification with duration of at least 1 year accredited by SANC
in Occupational Health Safety. Current SANC registration. Basic computer
literacy and driver’s license are mandatory. Knowledge of Occupational Health
AND safety Act 85 of 1993, COID Act 130 of 1993 including other related legal
framework and PRAAD. Knowledge and application of policies governing the
Public Service including Quality Assurance, PILIR, PRAAD and EHWP
Strategic Framework. Be able to work independently. Skilled to develop on-
going training in OHS principles to all categories of staff good communication,
report writing and facilitation skills. Sound organizing, planning, presentation
skills. Counselling, decision making, good communication skills.
DUTIES : Implementation of Occupational Health and Safety Act 85 of 1993 and COID
Act 130 of 1993. Conduct workplace hazard identification and risk assessment
(HIRA) in liaison with managers and ensure there are safe operating
procedures where necessary. Conduct training to all categories of personnel.
Perform medical surveillance. Maintain all appropriate records and documents
relevant to OHS. Participate in Institutions’ and Province’s determined
Committees, Task Teams, and Forum for service improvement. Facilitate,
implementation of National, Provincial legislation regarding OHS protocols and
monitoring thereof. Develop and monitor the implementation of education and
training programs in field. Active participation in Employees wellness program.
Assist with waste management. Management of (IOD)injury on duty. Active
participation in PILIR committee development and maintenance of OHS
structure according to legal requirements. Working closely with IPC and EAP
coordinators.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Serobatse Tel No: (011) 411-3563 / Ms M Nkuna Tel No: (011) 411-
3677/3516
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be given to Persons with
Disabilities, Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females
APPLICATIONS : candidates. To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : For general enquiries please contact Human Resource on 011 355-
7082/7043.Only online applications will be considered. Applicants must utilise
the most recent Z83 application form for employment, issued by the Minister
for the Public Service and Administration in line with Regulation 10 of the Public
Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New Z83 form must be completed,
initialled and signed. Furthermore, a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV)
108
must also be attached. Failure to attach the completed Z83 and
Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in disqualification. The New
Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service Department or the DPSA
website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only shortlisted candidates who meet
all the requirements of the post will be requested to submit certified copies of
qualifications, identity document and valid driver’s license (where
driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job) not older than six (06)
months. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It is our intention to promote
representation (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of posts and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will
promote representation will receive preference. It is the Department’s intention
to promote equity through the filling of all numeric targets as contained in the
Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The Department reserves the right not to
appoint. If you do not receive any response from us within 3 months, please
accept your application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/143 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FRAUD, CORRUPTION AND INTEGRITY
MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/050481
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/Degree (NQF level 7) in Forensic
Investigation/ Risk Management/ Internal Auditing / Forensic Auditing. 3-5
years' experience at Assistant Director level (Junior Management) within Fraud
and Anti-Corruption and Investigation environment. Knowledge and Skills:
GPG and GPDRT policies and procedures, Knowledge and understanding of
relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Fraud and
corruption environment, Written and verbal communication (at an executive
management level) and Ability to communicate at all levels and across all
sectors using various medium (e.g. presentation). Analytical and problem-
solving skills, Report writing, Policy and strategic planning and Problem solving
and analysis.
DUTIES : Investigate all fraud and corruption. Investigate all allegations of fraud and
corruption received from internal and external persons. Conduct statement
taking, evidence collection and draft preliminary investigative reports. Prevent
fraud and corruption within the Department. Conduct research on latest fraud
and corruption legislation and develop educational programs. Develop and
implement fraud prevention and anti-corruption strategies and programmes.
Conduct fraud risk assessment. Detect fraud and corruption. Detect
suspicious/hidden patterns and abnormal behaviour across data types.
Manage the preparation of detection reports and closure. Create an ethical
environment and improve good governance. Liaise with both internal and
external stakeholders and draft an annual schedule of awareness sessions.
Develop, implement and review anti- corruption and integrity management
policies, strategies and procedures of the unit. Develop strategic framework on
anti-corruption and integrity management fraud prevention plan. Manage
integrity management measures and promote ethical conduct in the
department. Ensure SMS members and other categories of designated
employees submit Financial Disclosures in line with the Financial Disclosure
Framework. Manage the development of fraud and ethics risk register for the
Department. Ensure submission of fraud risk action plan progress reports by
business. Manage Resources (human, equipment/asset etc.). Manage
grievances according to prescribed procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011)355 -7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355
7175
109
POST 26/144 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CASE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/050487
(Re-advert, people who applied previously are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefits)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma/Degree (NQF level 6/7) in Labour Relations/ Human
Resource Management/ Law as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Minimum of 3 – 5 years of experience in Labour Relations,
collective bargaining, legal environment and/or case management, of which 2
years must be at a supervisory level. Knowledge and skills: GPG and GPDRT
policies and procedures, and relevant legislation and Public Service
Regulations, people management and empowerment and problem-solving
analysis.
DUTIES : Manage and maintain a case management system. Acknowledge and register
all cases in the Department. Analyse reports received and charge employees
to determine grounds of misconduct. Ensure investigations are conducted and
liaise with Labour Unions’ representatives and make recommendations.
Facilitate dispute resolution. Attend the conciliation and arbitration proceedings
on all set down disputes. Coordinate and facilitate disciplinary processes.
Facilitate the acknowledgement and receipt of arbitration awards. Coordinate
and facilitate disciplinary processes. Attend to all formal disciplinary hearings
and progressive discipline within the Department. Promote fair and sound
Labour relations practices in the Department. Provide advisory role on all
labour relations matters and challenges. Development of labour relations.
Development of Labour relations policies, manuals and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355
7175
POST 26/145 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HEALTH AND WELLNESS REF NO: REFS/050352
Branch: Corporate Services
(Re-advert)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), (plus benefit)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/ Degree (NQF Level 7) in Human Science /
Social Science (Social Work) / Counselling Psychology. Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa or South Africa African Council for
Social Services Professions. 3-5 experience within Employee Health and
Wellness Environment of which 2 years must be at a supervisory level.
Knowledge and Skills: Project management methodologies Business
performance management Community relations & Stakeholder relationship
management. Analytical thinking Research, Computer utilization, Policy
formulation Conflict management, financial management, Adaptability during
changes to meet the goals Strategic management Change/diversity
management. Knowledge of GPG and DPSA policies and procedures, relevant
legislation and Public Service, Regulations Understanding of expectations of
customers Knowledge of SLAs. Management information knowledge of GPG
political and executive structures.
DUTIES : Develop and promote disease and chronic illnesses management
programmes. Manage and promote mental health and psychosomatic
illnesses. Manage injury on duty and incapacity due to ill health. Develop and
implement policies, procedures, guidelines and promote occupational health
education. Manage resources (Human / equipment / Assets). Conduct
awareness programmes on the functions and purpose of health surveillance
and the relevant laws and regulations. Develop and implement a toolkit for
Mental Health Promotion in the workplace which looks at practical steps for
addressing mental health. Measure the impact of programmes that reduce the
psychosocial and physical demands of the workplace that trigger stress.
Develop and implement strategies to reduce stigma and discrimination against
people living with mental diseases as well as the promotion of human rights
and wellness. Provide and promote utilization of counselling and support
services. Develop cost effective health care programmes to quantify Return on
investment ROI. Develop Departmental Health and Productivity Management
Policy and flexible policies that address work-life balance. Coordinate the
implementation of wellness programmes, projects and interventions. Manage
staff Plan, organize and control activities pertaining to the functions of the
110
programme Provide technical advice to management Evaluate and monitor
performance of employees to ensure achievement of strategic goals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa Tel No: (011) 355
7175
111
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
(This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.)
APPLICATIONS : Please forward applications quoting reference number to: Human Resource
Management, Niemeyer Memorial Hospital, Private Bag X1004, Utrecht, 2980
email: Niemeyer.Intern@kznhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 14 August 2026
NOTE : Directions to Candidates: The following documents must be submitted:
Applications are not required to submit copies of qualification and other
relevant document on application but must submit the Employment Form (Z83)
and the detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of certificates and other
relevant documents will only be requested from shortlisted candidate on or
before the interviews. Therefore only shortlisted candidates for a post will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. It will be expected candidate(s) to be
available for interview process on a day, all shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The reference number must be indicated in the column provided
on form Z83 e.g. Reference Number (NMH/THRT2026) Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post Failure to comply with the
above instructions will disqualify the applicants. The appointment is subject to
positive outcome obtained from the State Security Agency (SAA) to the
following checks (criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship),
verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous
experience from Employers. Please note that due to a large number of
applications received, applications will not be acknowledged, however, only the
short-listed applicants will be advised of the outcome. Applicants are
respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is received within 3
months after the closing date, they must accept that their applications were
unsuccessful. Please note that no S&T payments will be considered for
payment to candidates that are Invited for interview. (This Department is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity at all levels of different Occupational Categories in the
Department).
OTHER POST
POST 26/146 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (SPECIALTY) (THEATRE) REF NO:
NMH/THRT/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum, Plus Rural Allowance 8% Benefits:
13th Cheque, medical aid (optional), Housing Allowance (Employees must
meet the prescribed requirements)
Grade 2: R607 350 – R752 913 per annum, Plus Rural Allowance 8% Benefits:
13th Cheque, Housing Allowance (Employees must meet the prescribed
requirements), medical aid (optional).
CENTRE : Niemeyer Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Experience: A minimum of 4 years appropriate or recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Plus one year Post basic qualification in Operating Theatre
Nursing. Grade 2: Experience: A minimum of 4 years appropriate or
recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in a speciality after
obtaining one year post basic qualification in the relevant speciality. Senior
Certificate or equivalent qualification. Degree/ Diploma in General Nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse. One (1) year post basic qualification in Theatre. Current registration with
South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse (2026 SANC receipt) a
minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Knowledge,
112
Skills, Experience and Competencies Required: Strong interpersonal,
communication and presentation skills. Ability to make independent decision.
An understanding of the challenges facing the public health sector. Ability to
prioritize issues and other work related matters and to comply with time frames.
High level of accuracy. Depth knowledge of Acts, procedures, prescripts and
legislation.
DUTIES : Render an optimal holistic specialized nursing care to patients as member of
the Multidisciplinary team. Train and supervise junior staff and student nurses.
To execute Professional Nursing Duties and functions with proficiency in
support of the aims and strategic objectives of the institution and to perform
duties within the prescripts of all applicable legislation. To assist the
Operational Manager in charge of the Theatre with the overall management
and the necessary support for the effective functioning of the Theatre. Develop
competencies in scrub, circulating, recovery room and set room duties. Ensure
safe environment to achieve desired outcome of surgical interventions. Work
collaboratively with Surgeons and Anesthetists to meet patient needs during
theatre procedures and ensure responsibility for patient care. Ensure safe
environment for patients by assisting junior nursing staff members through
teaching and supervising. Plan, provide and supervise nursing activities in the
different allocated specialty. Ensure fiscal control of materials, supplies and
equipment. Provision of efficient floor nurses duties. Manage/ co-ordinate the
smooth functioning of the instrument room.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs GN Nkosi Tel No: (034) 331 3011
NOTE : NB: Equity Target: Male African.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants can submit their Z83 and
CV online. Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online
Application Centre’s (DOACS) where our friendly staff will assist you with
applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the list of
Designated Online Application Centers (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
Direct your application quoting the reference number of the post you are
applying for;
Head Office Posts: Direct your application quoting the reference number of
the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in which you saw
the advertisement to Director: Human Resource Management Department of
Public Works & Infrastructure, Private Bag X9142, Pietermaritzburg, 3200. For
attention: Mrs. ZJ Hlongwane. Alternatively, applications can be delivered to
191 Prince Alfred Street, Pietermaritzburg.
Southern Region Posts: Direct your application quoting the reference number
of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in which you
saw the advertisement to The Regional Director, Department of Public Works,
Southern Regional Office, Private Bag X9153 Pietermaritzburg, 3200. For the
attention of Ms P Singh, or alternatively it can be Hand Delivered to: 10 Prince
Alfred Street, Pietermaritzburg.
Ethekwini Region Posts: Direct your application quoting the reference
number of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in
which you saw the advertisement to The Regional Director, Department of
Public Works & Infrastructure, Private Bag X54336, Durban, 4000. For
attention: Ms NT Phewa or alternatively hand delivered to 455A Jan Smuts
Highway, Mayville, Durban.
North Coast Region Posts Direct your application quoting the reference
number of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in
which you saw the advertisement to The Regional Director, Department of
Public Works & Infrastructure, Private Bag X42, Ulundi, 3838. For attention: Mr
S Zulu, Alternatively, Applications can be delivered to King Dinuzulu Highway,
LA Administrative Building, Ulundi.
Midlands Region Posts: Direct your application quoting the reference number
of the post you are applying for and the name of the publication in which you
saw the advertisement to The Regional Director, Department of Public works,
and Private Bag X9963, Ladysmith, 3370. For attention: Ms N Mabizela,
Alternatively, Applications can be delivered to 40 Shepstone Road, Umkhamba
Gardens Ladysmith, 3370.
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
113
NOTE : Directions To Candidates Note to applicants: The Provincial Administration of
KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and Women
and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applications must be
submitted individually on the prescribed new approved Z83 form, the form is
available from the website www.kznworks.gov.za or can be obtainable from any
Public Service department, and must be accompanied by a comprehensive
Curriculum Vitae (CV). Certified copies of supporting documents need not
accompany your application and CV, as these will be requested from shortlisted
candidates only. Faxed or electronic copies will not be considered. Candidates
are urged to view the guidelines available to all prospective candidates
applying for vacant position on the departmental website before completing
applications for posts. Candidates are also advised not to send their
applications through registered mail, as the Department will not take
responsibility for non-collection thereof. It is the applicants’ responsibility to
have foreign qualifications assessment for equivalent by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications that do not comply with the
above-mentioned instructions will be disqualified. Please note that the
Department reserves the right not to fill the post. Recommended candidate’s
personal information will be subject to vetting prior to an offer of appointment
being made. Candidates are expected to be available on the date set for the
interviews or they may be disqualified. Should you not have been contacted by
this office within 3 months of the closing date of the advertisement, kindly
consider your application being unsuccessful. Please note that further
communication shall be restricted to those candidates who will have been
shortlisted. The appointed candidate shall be required to sign a performance
agreement. Please note that reference checks and/or confirmation of
employment will be done with the current employer and candidates are advised
to include references from the current employment to facilitate this. The filling
of this post will be guided by the Department’s Employment Equity targets.
Please note that requests for higher salaries will not be entertained for the
advertised posts, however it may only be considered for posts falling within the
Occupational Specific Dispensation (OSD) subject to the existing provisions.
Candidates applying for advertised posts in the Department, will be deemed
to have granted consent to their personal information being used to determine
suitability in terms of the POPIA Act, 4 of 2013. Please note that employment
verifications shall be undertaken for all experience which has been recognized
for shortlisting purposes, experience in the public service will need to be
supported with a signed job description and PERSAL service record history
and experience from the private sector needs to be supported by a certificate
of service confirming the name of company, position held, periods of
employment and duties performed. Experience that cannot be verified will
result in the applicant being disqualified. All shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/147 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DD/SCM/NCR2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package) to be structured in
accordance with the rules for Middle Management Services [MMS]
CENTRE : North Coast Region (Ulundi)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 7. A minimum of 3
years’ related supply chain management experience at a junior management
level (ASD). Computer packages, namely (Word processing, Spreadsheet,
Presentation and Outlook). A valid Driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate pre-bid and adjudication services. Manage and co-
ordinate procurement and post-bid services. Manage Provisioning Services
and demand management services. Manage logistics services. Manage the
implementation of policies. Manage the resources of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ZE Mahaye Tel No: (035) 874 3348
114
POST 26/148 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DD/PM/MR2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package) to be structured in
accordance with the rules for Middle Management Services [MMS]
CENTRE : Midlands Region (Ladysmith)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus a relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 6 in the built
environment or related field. A minimum of 3 years’ related built environment
experience. Computer literacy (Word processing, Spreadsheet, Presentation
and Outlook). A valid Driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of Programmes within the Region. Manage and
monitor programme expenditure and the preparation of financial progress
reports. Facilitate effective stakeholder and WIMS management. Deliver
policies and strategies aimed at improving service delivery. Manage the
resources of the Sub-Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Davids Tel No: (036) 638 8000
POST 26/149 : ENGINEER (PRODUCTION) GRADE A
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office (Pietermaritzburg)
(Electrical/ Mech) Ref No: HO/ENG/E/2026 (X1 Post)
(Civil/Structural) Ref No: HO/ENG/CS/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree, 3 years post-qualification engineering
experience, compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer and
a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety. Undertake human capital development.
Undertake administration and budget planning in respect of projects.
Undertake related research and development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TL Mchunu Tel No: (033) 260 3714
POST 26/150 : CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER (PRODUCTION) GRADE A REF
NO: CPM/MR-2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R914 517 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Midlands Region (Ladysmith)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Higher Diploma with a minimum of 4years and six
months certified experience Or a B. Tech with a minimum of 4 years certified
managerial experience Or an Honours Degree with a minimum of 3 years’
experience. All qualifications must be in the Built Environment field. A valid
driver’s licence and compulsory registration with the SACPCMP as a
Professional Construction Project Manager on appointment.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all aspects of construction projects. Undertake project
accounting and financial management. Undertake office administration related
to projects. Undertake research and development in respect of construction
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Davids Tel No: (036) 638 8071
NOTE : NB: Provision exists for salary packages to be reviewed for production
positions, based on an additional notch for every two years post registration
previous and relevant experience as per the provisions of the OSD.
POST 26/151 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (PRODUCTION) GRADE A REF NO: QS/ETH/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Ethekwini Regional Office (Durban)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree in Quantity Surveying, 3 years post-
qualification Quantity Surveying experience, compulsory registration with
SACQSP as a Professional Quantity Surveyor and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Perform quantity surveying activities on construction projects. Undertake
human capital development. Undertake office administration and budget
planning. Undertake research and development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Kunene at 083 3815806
POST 26/152 : QUANTITY SURVEYOR (PRODUCTION) GRADE A REF NO: NCR/QS/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package)
115
CENTRE : North Coast Region (Ulundi)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree in Quantity Surveying, 3 years post-
qualification Quantity Surveying experience, compulsory registration with
SACQSP as a Professional Quantity Surveyor and a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Perform quantity surveying activities on construction projects. Undertake
human capital development. Undertake office administration and budget
planning. Undertake research and development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr ZE Mahaye Tel No: (035) 874 3348
POST 26/153 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: YOUTH WOMEN & PEOPLE WITH DISABILITY
REF NO: HO/ADYWPWD/072026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate and recognized NQF level 6 qualification in Development
Studies / Public Management / Administration / Community Development
qualification plus 3 years relevant experience at a supervisory level in
empowerment environment. Proficiency in relevant word processing,
spreadsheet and presentation software packages. Possession of a valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Implement Youth Development Programmes. Facilitate Women Empowerment
Programmes. Administer the implementation of empowerment Programmes for
People with Disability. Provide administrative support services. Provide advice
and guidance and input to policy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Mncube Tel No: (033) 355 5603
POST 26/154 : INTERNAL CONTROL OFFICER REF NO: HO/AOCPS/062026
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 in Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Auditing plus minimum of one year
experience in Accounting/ Auditing/ Internal Auditing/ Internal Control field.
Proficiency in relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation
software packages. Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Facilitate and perform audit related queries/ recommendations. Facilitate and
perform the verification of processed transactions to ensure that accuracy and
completeness of financial and SCM transactions. Ensure compliance
monitoring to relevant legislation, regulation, departmental policies procedures
and processes. Co-ordinate and conduct all investigations of irregular and
expenditure losses and fraud. Provide inputs on the development and review
of departmental internal control policies, frameworks, and procedure manuals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Gunpath Tel No: (033) 355 4002
POST 26/155 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE: ACQUISITION REF NO: AO/ZSD/ACQ/26
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Zululand Sub-District Office (Nongoma)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12 certificate or equivalent. A minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience.
Computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel and e-mail). A valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Monitor pre-bid services. Administer post-bid services. Render adjudication
service. Render procurement of goods and services. Supervise human
resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WP Khathini Tel No: (035) 831 7300
POST 26/156 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: TAX AND BANKING REF NO:
HO/AOTAX/072026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus 3 years’ relevant experience in Finance
environment. Proficiency in relevant word processing, spreadsheet and
presentation software packages. Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Ensure that records and IRP5 certificates accurately maintained. Tax
reconciliation (Bi-annual and Annual). Monitor the Departmental bank account
including the clearance of banking related suspense accounts. Keep and issue
Petty cash.
116
ENQUIRIES : Mr SO Nsibande Tel No: (033) 355 3772
POST 26/157 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg and Durban for the Ethekwini post:
Head of Department (HOD) Ref No: HO/PAHOD/072026 (X1 Post)
Supply Chain Management (SCM) Ref No: HO/PASCM/072026 (X1 Post)
Infrastructure Maintenance and Technical Support (IMTS) Ref No:
HO/PAIMTS/072026 (X1 Post)
Regional Director: Ethekwini Ref No: H/MAN/HG/ER/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 plus Secretarial Diploma or equivalent qualification. A minimum of
three (3) experience in rendering a support service to senior management.
Computer literacy in the office software packages namely Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial support service. Renders administrative support
services. Provides support regarding meetings. Supports with the
administration of the budget for the office. Studies the relevant Public Service
and departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents and ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Dr V Govender (Head of Department Tel No: (033) 355 5560
Dr M Mbili (Supply Chain Management Tel No: (033) 355 5495
Ms NQ Gcaba (IMTS) Tel No: (033) 260 3722
Mr DS Naicker at 083 456 9511
NOTE : NB: Candidates may be subjected to a computer assessment to determine
computer literacy.
POST 26/158 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER REF NO: HO/COMM/072026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus appropriate NQF level 6 in Communication / Public Relations
plus a minimum of 1 year experience in relevant field. Proficiency in relevant
word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages.
Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide a departmental public relations service. Provide a departmental media
liaison service. Provide support in the production of publications. Provide
administrative duties and communication related support for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Khumalo Tel No: (033) 355 5495
POST 26/159 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: CONSTRUCTION PROCUREMENT
SERVICES REF NO: HO/AOCPS/072026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 or equivalent plus 3 years’ relevant experience in Supply Chain
Management environment. Proficiency in relevant word processing,
spreadsheet and presentation software packages. Possession of a valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate and facilitate secretarial support to the Bid Adjudication Committee
(BAC). Ensure secretarial support to the Bid Specification and Bid Evaluation
Committees (BEC). Co-ordinate secretarial support to the SCM Forum
meeting. Compile a comprehensive database of all submissions to and from
the committees. Provide inputs on the development and review of departmental
construction SCM policies, frameworks, and procedure manuals.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Sewmohan Tel No: (033) 355 5455
POST 26/160 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ACQUISITION (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Harry Gwala (Ixopo) Ref No: AO/ACQ/HG/SR26
Umgungundlovu (Pietermaritzburg) Ref No: AO/ACQ/UMG/SR26
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 or equivalent plus 3 years’ relevant experience. Proficiency in
relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages.
Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
117
DUTIES : Administer pre-bid processes. Administer post-bid processes. Render
adjudication services. Render procurement of goods and services. Supervise
staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TW Nkomo (Harry Gwala) Tel No: (039) 834 0700
Mrs C Buthelezi (uMgungundlovu) Tel No: (033) 3557100
POST 26/161 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: POST BID: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
REF NO: AO/POST BID/SR26
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Southern Regional Office (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus 3 years’ relevant experience. Proficiency in
relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages.
Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide contract administration services. Provide post-bid services to the
Region. Monitor and control the extension of validity periods and the signing
administration. Exercise control over supplier, contractor and consultant
payments. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRES : Ms MP Kunene Tel No: (033) 8971402
POST 26/162 : HUMAN RESOURCE SUPERVISOR (EMPLOYEE BENEFITS) REF NO:
HRS/EB/SRO/26
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Southern Regional Office (Pietermaritzburg)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus 3 years’ relevant experience. Proficiency in
relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software packages.
Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Administer salary adjustments. Administer pension matters. Administer
transfers, translations, secondments and service terminations. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SL Luthuli Tel No: (033) 8971418
POST 26/163 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LOGISTICS REF NO: AO/LOG/ETH/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Ethekwini (Durban)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus 3 years National Diploma / Degree,1 year experience.
Proficiency in relevant word processing, spreadsheet and presentation
software packages. Possession of a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Fleet Management (Technical). Fleet Management (Administration).
Supervision of Subsidized and Private on official vehicles. Supervise staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. N Miya at 063 6876593
POST 26/164 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: POST BID REF NO: AO/PB/MR-2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Midlands Region (Ladysmith)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 plus a relevant Degree or National Diploma. A minimum of one (1)
years’ relevant work experience. Computer literacy in the office software
packages namely Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. A valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Provide Contract Administration Services. Provide post Bid services to the
Region. Monitor and control the extension of validity periods and the signing
administration. Exercise control over supplier, contractor and consultant
payments. Supervise Human Resources/Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. GB Mthethwa Tel No: (036) 638 8177
POST 26/165 : HUMAN RESOURCE SUPERVISOR REF NO: HRS/ZDO/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Zululand District Office (Ulundi)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade12 certificate or equivalent. A minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience.
Computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel and e-mail). A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Supervise and undertake the more complex implementation and maintenance
of Human Resource Administration practices. Monitor Human Resource
118
personnel records. Co-ordinate and implement EPMDS matters in the district.
Co-ordinate the HRD matters. Supervise human resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NM Zungu Tel No: (035) 879 8300
POST 26/166 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER MR3/MR4/MR5 REF NO:
LAO/LS/032024 (X1 POST)
SALARY : MR3: R337 563 - R385 965 per annum
MR4: R403 929 - R461 838 per annum
MR5: R483 219 - R685 812 per annum
Dependant on number of years of post qualification relevant experience [as per
the provisions contained within the Occupational Specific Dispensation (OSD)
for Legally Qualified Personnel in the Public Service]
CENTRE : Head Office, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 plus an appropriate Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree or equivalent
qualification. MR3: At least 2 years’ appropriate post-qualification legal
experience and MR4: At least 5 years’ appropriate post-qualification legal
experience and MR5: At least 8 years’ appropriate post-qualification legal
experience. Experience preferably in commercial litigation, property
law/conveyancing and contract drafting matters. Admission as an Attorney or
an Advocate. Computer Literacy in Word processing, Spreadsheet,
Presentation and email software programmes & a valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Interpret, draft and edit a wide variety of legal documents such as a contract,
guarantees etc. in order to protect the interests of the Department. Providing
litigation advisory services for the Department. Provide accurate and well –
researched legal opinions and advice. Advising and dealing with general public
service and policy issues, ensuring compliance with legislation and keeping
abreast of legal developments and conducting research on the law. Developing
and drafting of provincial legislation as required by the Department. Assist with
the development of Departmental policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Khan Tel No: (033) 355 5666
POST 26/167 : WORKS INSPECTOR
SALARY : R280 278 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Structural: Harry Gwala – Ixopo Ref No: WI/STRUCT/HG/SR26
Mechanical: Umgungundlovu -PMB Ref No: WI/MECH/UMG/SR26
REQUIREMENTS : An accredited National Diploma (Technical / N / S streams) or equivalent
qualification; or N3 Certificate plus a passed Trade Test in the built
environment; or Registration as an Engineering Technician.
DUTIES : Render a basic inspection service of work done on minor new and existing
structures on a project basis. Analyse and compile relevant documentation for
work to be undertaken on minor new and existing structures. Oversee the work
of contractors. Gather and submit information related to the Extended Public
Works Programme (EPWP).
ENQUIRES : Mr TW Nkomo (Harry Gwala posts) Tel No: (039) 834 0700
Mrs C Buthelezi (uMgungundlovu posts) Tel No: (033) 355 7100
POST 26/168 : WORKS INSPECTOR ELECTRICAL (BUILDING MANAGER: HEAD
OFFICE- 191 PRINCE ALFRED STREET - PMB) REF NO:
WI/ELEC/UMG/SR26
SALARY : R280 276 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Umgungundlovu -Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus a National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent
or N3 and pass trade test in the building environment, or Registration as an
Engineering technician, computer literacy in the following software packages,
namely (Word Processing, Spreadsheet, Presentation and E-mail Software
Programs. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Render basic inspection service of work done on miner new existing structure
on the project basis. Analyse and compile relevant documentation for work to
be done on minor new and existing structures. Oversee the work of contractors.
Gather and submit information in terms of the extended Public Works
Programme. (EPWP)
ENQUIRIES : Mrs C Buthelezi Tel No: (033) 355 7100
119
POST 26/169 : WORKS INSPECTOR ELECTRICAL (BUILDING MANAGER: LA BUILDING
- ULUNDI) REF NO: WIS/NCR/26
SALARY R280 276 per annum (Level 06)
CENTRE : Zululand Sub-District (Ulundi)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent plus a National Diploma (T/N/S streams) or equivalent
or N3 and pass trade test in the building environment, or Registration as an
Engineering technician, computer literacy in the following software packages,
namely (Word Processing, Spreadsheet, Presentation and E-mail Software
Programs. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Render basic inspection service of work done on miner new existing structure
on the project basis. Analyse and compile relevant documentation for work to
be done on minor new and existing structures. Oversee the work of contractors.
Gather and submit information in terms of the Extended Public Works
Programme. (EPWP).
ENQUIRIES : Mr NM Zungu Tel No: (035) 879 8300
POST 26/170 : ARTISAN
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Harry Gwala District Office, Ixopo
Electrical Ref No: ARTISAN/ELECTRICAL/HG/SR26 (X1 Post)
Painter Ref No: ARTISAN/PAINTER/HG/SR26 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS An appropriate trade test. A valid Driver’s Licence (Minimum Code B – Manual
transmission). Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specifications and recognised standards. Carry out Quality assurance of
produced objects. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults.
Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment
and/or facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities
according to schedule. Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment
and/or facilities. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile and
submit reports; Provide inputs to the operational plan; Keep and maintain job
record/register; and supervise and mentor staff. Maintain expertise and ensure
Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures.
ENQUIRES : Mr TW Nkomo Tel No: (039) 834 0700
POST 26/171 : ARTISAN: ELECTRICAL (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Uthukela District Office (Ladysmith) Ref No: ART/UTHUK-2026
Amajuba District Office (Newcastle) Ref No: ART/AMAJ-2026
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate trade test certificate. A Valid driver’s licence (Code B-Manual
transmission).
DUTIES : Produce designs according to client specification and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specification and recognized standards. Carry out Quality assurance of
produced objects. Inspect equipment and/or facilities for technical faults.
Repair equipment and facilities according to standards. Test repair equipment
and/or facilities against specifications. Service equipment and/or facilities
according to schedule. Quality assure serviced and maintained equipment
and/or facilities. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile and
submit reports; Provide inputs to the operational plan; Keep and maintain job
record/register; and supervise and mentor staff. Maintain expertise and ensure
Continuous individual development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TI Letompa: Harry uThukela District Office Tel No: (036) 6382900
Mr. PN Zulu: Amajuba District Office Tel No: (036) 638 8000
POST 26/172 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
Administration Clerk: Office Of HOD Ref No: HO/ACHOD/072026 (X1 Post)
Administration Clerk: ICT Ref No: HO/ACICT/072026 (X1 Post)
120
Administration Clerk: SCM Ref No: HO/ACSCM/072026 (X3 Posts)
Administration Clerk: Building Ref No: HO/ACBM/072026 (X1 Post)
Accounting Clerk: Bookkeeping Ref No: HO/ACBK/072026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent plus proven computer literacy (Ms Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Preference may be given to candidates who
are proven to be computer literate and who’s qualifications /or subjects are
relevant to the post. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics. Knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service.
Knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working environment.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide clerical support services
within the respective components. Administer correspondence for the
component.
ENQUIRES : Mr T Mgenge: Office of HOD Tel No: (033) 355 5694
Ms. N Zondi: ICT Tel No: (033) 260 3785
Ms. N Zulu: SCM Tel No: (033) 355 5563
Ms. G Khuzwayo: Building Tel No: (033) 260 4216
Mr. SO Nsibande: Finance Tel No: (033) 355 3772
POST 26/173 : DRIVER: EXECUTIVE SUPPORT (OFFICE OF THE HOD) REF NO:
HO/DR/ES/072026
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or equivalent. A valid driver’s licence and 7 to 12 months relevant
experience.
DUTIES : Core driver functions. Secondary functions that can be performed. Preparing
accident and incident reports as necessary. Keep the assigned vehicle(s)
inside and outside.
ENQUIRES : Ms T Mgenge Tel No: (033) 355 5694
POST 26/174 : HANDMAN REF NO: H/MAN/HG/SR/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Harry Gwala District Office, Ixopo
REQUIREMENTS : ABET Level 4 qualification or equivalent; 0–6 months relevant experience.
Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Assist in the maintenance of offices, official buildings, and related services.
Perform general labour and support services. Provide operational support on
site. Maintain office equipment and furniture.
ENQUIRES : Mr TW Nkomo Tel No: (039) 834 0700
NOTE : NB. Recommended candidates will be subjected to a security clearance,
competency assessment and will also be required to disclose their financial
interests and will also be subjected to a technical assessment during the
selection process.
121
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMNISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts. All
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the relevant reference should be forwarded as follows:
The Head of the Department, Post To: Department of Economic Development
and Tourism P/Bag X6108, Kimberley, 8300 or Hand Deliver to: MetLife
Towers, (Post Office Building), T Floor (Registry Office), Post Office Building,
Kimberley or Email applications to: HRA@ncdedat.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. M. Musa
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to the
address specified above. The application must include a duly completed and
signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at https://www.dpsa.gov.za/, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae CV;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please note a separate application is required for each position
applied for. Applications received using the incorrect application for
employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment
form must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign this form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Applicants are not required to
submit/attach copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the new (Z83) form and detailed curriculum vitae
only. The provision of certified documents will only be required from shortlisted
candidates for submission on or before the day of the interview following a
formal communication from Human Resources unit. In instances where
applicants are in possession of a foreign qualification, it is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only submit proof of such evaluation upon
being shortlisted for a post. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders will be required to
submit a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits only if shortlisted.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned instruction/
requirements, as well as applications received late will not be considered. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the above
post/s. Applications, including those submitted via registered mail must reach
the department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date. Incomplete
applications, or applications received after the closing date will be disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please note that suitable
candidates will be subjected to a technical assessment as well as satisfactory
personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial-asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. Successful candidates will also be subjected to a
security clearance process. Women and persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will be required to sign the
performance agreement within three months from the date of assumption of
duty. It will also be required that the successful candidate declare to the EA
particulars of all registrable financial interests. Short-listed candidates will be
expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Appointment of these positions will be provisional, pending the issue of security
clearance. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment
decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of this post(s).
122
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/175 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTICES AND
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: NCDEDAT/2026/05 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive TCE package)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a tertiary NQF level 7 Degree in Human
Resource Management. A minimum of 3-4 years’ relevant experience at
Assistant Director level within a Human Resource Management environment.
Valid Driver’s license. Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge and understanding of
Human Resource Management environment. Knowledge of the PERSAL
System (Added advantage: PERSAL controller), Knowledge of policies/
implementation strategies. Knowledge of Human Resource Management
Legislation/ Directives. Leadership Skills. Planning and organising skills.
Problem-solving skills. Policy Development Skills. Presentation Skills.
Interpretation skills. Interpersonal skills. Conflict Management skills. Analytical
thinking. Communication skills (verbal/written). Computer skills. Research
skills. Project management skills.
DUTIES : Managing service benefits within the Department: Manage the application and
implementation of all service benefits (GEPF, GEHS, PILIR, etc.). Manage
coordination of employee service terminations (retirements, resignations, etc.).
Ensure the accurate implementation of leave on PERSAL, leave audits of
employees and payment of leave gratuities and provision of advice and support
regarding leave management. Manage exit interviews. Managing Recruitment
and Selection services within the department: Manage the recruitment,
selection and appointment of employees whilst ensuring compliance with
employment laws and regulations during the recruitment and Selection process
(advert, interviews and appointments). Manage and monitor the departmental
vacancy rate. Ensure proper administration of appointments, promotions etc.
Ensure accurate capturing of personnel information on PERSAL. Management
of HR records: Ensure proper human resource record keeping. Ensure an
updated filing system. Implement filing control measures. Provide support
during Audits. Coordinate submission of HR records reports. Provide
operational leadership in management, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of human resources and activities within the HRA &P unit:
Management of human resources including Discipline management. Training
and Development, PMDS, EHW management, Attendance and leave
management, Mainstreaming of females, youth and persons with disabilities.
General management in terms of: Budget monitoring. Input, preparation,
implementation, monitoring and reporting on Strategic/ Annual Performance/
Operational and HR Plan of the unit. Management of governance structures
and systems e.g. PERSAL. Utilisation and care of assets within the unit.
Determine specifications for procurement of goods and services. Provision of
accurate human resource information, i.e. vacancy rate, turnover rate, etc., for
reporting purposes, e.g. HR Plan, HRPIR, EE Report, MANCO Presentations.
Attend strategic sessions. Provide input towards the Risk register of the sub-
directorate. Attending quarterly forums on HR-related matters which impact
audit outcomes. Presenting to and attending internal forums e.g. Staff
information sessions, Planning Forum, EMC, Strategic sessions etc. to create
awareness and educate on correct application and implementation procedures
relating to HR matters to minimise risks associated with audit queries and
findings
ENQUIRIES : Ms. MR Musa Tel No: (053) 839 4076
POST 26/176 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: NCDEDAT/2026/06 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive TCE package)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a tertiary NQF level 7 Degree in
Communication/ Journalism. A minimum of 3-4 years’ experience at Assistant
Director level within a communications environment. A valid driver's license.
Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge of government communication frameworks.
Understanding of the Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations.
Familiarity with the Government Communication and Information System
(GCIS) prescribed standards. Expertise in integrated communication planning
and stakeholder engagement models Grasp of risk- and crisis-communication
123
protocols in a public-sector context. Communication Skills. Interpersonal skills.
Team leadership. Computer literacy. Graphic Design. Professional writing and
editing skills. Strategic and Planning skills. Basic Project Management.
DUTIES : Manage the development and implementation of the communication strategy
in terms of both internal and external departmental communication: Develop
and maintain an internal and external communication policies and strategies
aligned with Departmental goals. Manage the development (including layout,
design) and distribution of a regular employee newsletter featuring project
updates, success stories, and upcoming events. Manage and update the
departmental intranet or collaboration platform with news, policy changes, and
resource libraries. Quality-assure leadership messages, memos, and all-staff
emails before publishing. Provide communication toolkits and templates for
officials to ensure consistent application/ adherence to Corporate Image
standards of the department. Produce and distribute press materials, including
press releases, media advisories, and executive statements to announce
news, product launches, and corporate milestones. Manage corporate content
which promotes the departmental public image on social-media channels;
schedule regular posts, monitor engagement, and update messaging for
consistency and timeliness. Maintain relationships with journalists, analysts,
influencers, and industry partners; maintain segmented media and influencer
databases for targeted outreach. Provide input to and implement proactive and
reactive crisis-communication strategies and protocols; assisting in drafting of
holding statements, manage rapid response workflows, and liaise with legal
and leadership to protect reputation. Provide content management and media
liaising support services: Develop and maintain an integrated content calendar
covering digital, social, print, and multimedia channels. Edit and publish
articles, blog posts, videos, infographics, and podcasts, ensuring alignment
with brand voice and objectives. Review and distribute press releases, media
advisories, talking points, and backgrounders to announce news, events, and
milestones. Coordinate interviews, press conferences, and media visits; brief
spokespeople and provide necessary materials. Respond promptly to media
inquiries, fact-check requests, and interview arrangements; serve as the
central liaison between journalists and internal subject-matter experts.
Maintain diplomatic content and media interactions, comply with legal,
regulatory, and brand guidelines and secure necessary approvals before
publication. Implement a rapid-response protocol for crisis situations, ensuring
timely content updates and press handling to protect reputation. Provide public
liaison and events management services: Develop and maintain a public
liaison and events strategy aligned with organisational objectives and
community needs. Coordinate distribution of public outreach materials,
including newsletters, brochures, social-media posts, and community notices.
Liaise with government officials, local authorities, and community leaders to
secure permits, endorsements, and participation. Facilitating activities relating
to media accreditation, press zones, and interview schedules; prepare
spokespeople with talking points and Q&A briefs. Provide post-event follow-up
services: distribute thank-you notes, collect feedback via surveys, analyse
satisfaction metrics and produce impact/feedback reports. Maintain and refine
an events toolkit: templates, checklists, vendor lists, risk-assessment forms,
and promotional collateral. Provide operational leadership in the management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of human resources and activities
within the Communications unit: Management of human resources including
Discipline management, Training and Development, PMDS, EHW
management, Attendance and leave management, Mainstreaming of females,
youth and persons with disabilities. General management in terms of: Budget
monitoring, Input, preparation, implementation, monitoring and reporting on
Strategic/ Annual Performance/ Operational and HR Plan of the unit. Utilisation
and care of assets within the unit. Recordkeeping and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. TG Ngamole Tel No: (053) 839 4028
POST 26/177 : LABOUR RELATIONS OFFICER REF NO: NCDEDAT/2026/07 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a tertiary NQF level 6 qualification in
Labour Law/ Labour Relations/HRM or related fields. 1-2 years relevant
experience within a Labour Relations field. A valid driver licence will be an
added advantage. Skills & Knowledge: In-depth knowledge of Labour
124
Relations Legislation, Processes of Labour Relations matters, Knowledge of
the Public Service Act & regulations, Processes of the CCMA, PSCBC and
GPSSBC. Good communication skills, computer literacy, facilitation skills,
conflict resolution skills, analytical skills, presentation skills, negotiation skills,
organising skills and interpersonal relationship skills.
DUTIES : Rendering of Labour Relations Advisory Services: Provide advice and
guidance on labour relations issues to management and employees, ensuring
alignment with legislative frameworks. Conducting relevant research to keep
abreast with changes in legislation. Ensure adherence to labour laws,
regulations, collective agreements, and internal HR policies, supporting the
Department's compliance goals. Act as an advisor to management on proactive
strategies to minimise workplace conflicts, ensuring a fair and consistent
approach to employee relations. Attend, participate and present at internal and
external forums/sessions. Conducting relevant research and interpreting
results in order to advise accordingly. Provision of dispute resolution & case
management services: Investigate employee grievances, misconduct, and
disputes. Represent the department in disciplinary hearings, grievance
procedures, and mediation processes. Proactively manage case files and track
outcomes. Liaise with unions and other stakeholders on dispute resolution and
collective bargaining matters. Compilation of charge sheets. Accompanying
and/ or serving documents to stakeholders. To capture, report, track and
safeguard information pertaining to Labour/Employee Relations: Establish,
maintain and update/ capture information on relevant systems databases.
Collection of and coordination/ consolidation of information collected for
compliance reporting. Compilation of draft compliance reports and escalating
for quality assurance. Record keeping of compliance reports/ dispute resolution
bundles and outcomes and consequence management related documents.
Compile and distribute agendas relating to Labour relations sessions to
members of relevant meetings/ committees/ sessions etc. Compilation of draft
minutes of Labour Relations sessions held in line with discussions and
decisions. Coordinating meetings and information sharing sessions with
internal and external stakeholders ensuring logistical arrangements are in
place. Preparing bundles/ case files. Input into policy development/ reviewal.
Provide capacity building services within the department: Coordinating
meetings and information sharing sessions with internal and external
stakeholders which included presenting/ sharing information in terms of Labour
Relations processes and procedures. Liaising with HR to ensure training
programs align with organisational needs and strategic HR goals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. L. Vezi Tel No: (053) 839 4000
125
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENT, CONSERVATION, AND TOURISM
It is the Department ‘s intention to promote Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer and is
committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity in employment, especially in
respect of race, gender and disability. White males and females are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Completed application forms and the Comprehensive CV quoting the relevant
reference number, may either be hand-delivered to Department of Economic
Development, Environment, Conservation and Tourism, NWDC Building, Cnr
University Drive and Provident Street, Mmabatho, 2745. OR E-mail:
dedectapplications@nwpg.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026
NOTES : Application must be submitted on a newly subscribed Z83 Form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, which must be signed and dated (and
unsigned and not dated Z83 form will disqualify an application) and must be
accompanied by a recently updated, comprehensive CV, including the details
of at least three contactable referees (should be people who recently worked
with the applicant). Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it
must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you have not being contacted within six (6) months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification, financial/asset record
check, qualification/study verification and previous employment verification).
Successful candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes.
The Department reserves the right not to make appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). No faxed and late applications will be considered. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service (SMS Pre Entry
Certificate) is required prior to finalisation of an appointment into any SMS post.
For more details on the pre-entry course visit: https:
www.thensg.gov.za/training -course/sms-pre-entry programme. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Successful applicants will be required
to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement.
Disclosure of financial interests is a requirement. NB: Applicants who
previously applied for these posts need not re-apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/178 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC PLANNING REF NO: 01/DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package), 60%
or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in the field of Business
Economics / Economic Planning or equivalent qualification as recognised by
SAQA Postgraduate qualification(s) in the Economics field of study will be an
added advantage Extensive experience in the field of economic development,
export and investment promotion Knowledge and understanding of the
economic development sector, as well as, industry development Experience of
conducting economic development research A minimum of 5 years’ experience
at a senior management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors A
valid driver’s license. Competencies: Financial management Strategic
capability and leadership Programme and Project management Change
management Knowledge Management Service delivery Innovation Problem
126
solving and Analysis People management and Empowerment Client
orientation and customer focus Communication Honesty and Integrity
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Perform functions as a Chief Economist Develop and implement interventions
and strategies to stimulate economic growth and development through industry
development, trade and investment promotion Facilitate and co-ordinate the
development of the major Provincial economic sectors (agro processing,
manufacturing, mining beneficiation, tourism and green economy) Facilitate
the support of industries in order to contribute to the acceleration of economic
growth rate Address the millennium development goals, national and provincial
goals of job creation and the constitutional mandate Facilitate and undertake
research that will inform the development and review of economic development
plans, policies and strategies in alignment with national and provincial priorities
Conduct research and feasibility studies on prospective projects in terms of,
inter alia, technical, socio-economic, environmental and financial management
and market processes to aid decision-making about the type of project support
and links to sector development Manage the implementation of broad
economic strategies and other imperative initiatives to transform the provincial
economy e.g. Special Economic Zones (SEZ), Black industrialists and
Industrial parks Develop and implement key economic sectors strategies that
influence provincial economy growth and development Facilitate and manage
creation of an enabling environment for key Provincial industries that have the
potential to significantly contribute to job creation, skills development,
establishment and growth of small medium and large business and support
BBBEE through rural and township economy within the four districts of the
Province To enhance the competitiveness of the province’s priority economic
sectors and ensure that they can compete within a global, continental and
international scale Manage strategic projects and partnership/ service level
agreements with key stakeholders in provincial prioritised economic sectors
and ensure that are successful completed within budgetary timelines and
performance requirements Manage the performance of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane Tel No: (018) 388 5823
POST 26/179 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES REF NO: 02/
DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package), 60%
or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior management level or equivalent to
SMS level from other sectors. A valid driver’s license. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of corporate services management in public service.
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership skills. Programme and
project management skills. Financial management skills. Change management
skills. Knowledge management skills. Service delivery innovation skills.
Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management and empowerment
skills. Client orientation and customer focus. Communication skills. Honesty
and integrity. Networking and presentation skills. Computer skills. Excellent, in-
depth knowledge of and insight into all applicable policy frameworks governing
the public sector.
DUTIES : Oversee the rendering of Human Resource Management & Development
Services within the Department. Manage the provision of strategic support and
administration services. Oversee the legal support services of the Department.
Oversee security compliance and transformation within the Department.
Oversee the management of ICT Corporate communication and Knowledge
management within the Department. Ensure departmental compliance to the
PAIA and POPIA. Monitor Communications Services within the Department.
Coordinate strategic planning cycle, strategic and business plans. Collate
organizational performance reports quarterly and annually. Manage and
provide support services to the entire department. Manage information by
ensuring that all information in the department is secure/accessible/reliable and
properly recorded. Minimize risk to the department by ensuring that controls for
all internal processes are in place. Develop and implement efficient reporting
systems to ensure optimal internal decision-making for management. Manage
the departmental PMDS for Senior Management Services in line with the
Annual Performance Plan and implementation plan as well as annual report.
127
Provide financial and personnel leadership and ensure overall management
and control of the Chief Directorate Corporate Services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane Tel No: (018) 388 5823
POST 26/180 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTEGRATED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
(IEDS) REF NO: 03/ DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package), 60%
or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) or equivalent as recognised
by SAQA. A higher qualification in Economics / Economic Development /
Economic Management and Analysis / Business Entrepreneurship will serve
as an added advantage. A minimum of 5 years’ experience at a senior
management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors. A valid
driver’s license. Competencies: Financial management, Strategic Capability
and Leadership, Programme and Project management, Change management,
Knowledge management, Service delivery innovation, Problem solving and
Analysis, People management and Empowerment, Client orientation and
customer focus, Communication, Honesty and Integrity. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Manage the contribution by the Department to the local economic growth and
development. Identify regulatory burdens that negatively affect business
development. Manage strategic projects and partnership / service delivery level
agreements with key stakeholders in the sector and ensure that they are
successfully completed within the budgetary timelines and performance
requirements. Manage the empowerment of enterprises of the designated
groups with the aim of addressing economic disparities. Manage the
implementation of broad economic strategies and other imperative initiatives
to transform the provincial economy. Conduct viability and financial
management and market processes to aid decision-making about the type of
project support and links to support programmes. Assess the impact on
increased coordination and partnership regarding funding of enterprises
(SMMEs and Cooperatives). Facilitate the alignment of all procurement policies
to empower Cooperatives and SMMEs at provincial and local levels. Ensure
proper implementation of the incubation and skills development programme to
sustain small businesses in the province. Manage the implementation of
Departmental Risk Management policy. Collaborate with municipalities through
their integrated development plans to develop and implement enterprise
development programmes towards improved Local Economic Development.
Manage the provision of technical support to the Province and municipalities
during the implementation of Small Business Portfolio programmes within the
districts/municipalities (DDM). Manage and ensure effective and efficient
utilisation of the financial, human and physical resources of the Chief
Directorate in line with the applicable legislation. Communication (verbal,
written and formal presentations, etc) with stakeholders from diverse
backgrounds and deliver relevant information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane Tel No: (018) 388 5823
POST 26/181 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUSINESS REGULATORY AND CONSUMER
PROTECTION (BUSREG) REF NO: 04/ DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive remuneration package), 60%
or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) or equivalent as recognised
by SAQA. A higher qualification in Business Administration / Business
Management / Management will serve as an added advantage. A minimum of
5 years’ relevant experience at a senior management level or equivalent to
SMS level from other sectors. Valid driver’s license. Competencies: Financial
management. Strategic capability and leadership. Programme and project
management. Change management. Knowledge management. Service
delivery innovation. Problem-solving and analysis. People management and
empowerment. Client orientation and customer focus. Honesty and integrity.
DUTIES : Oversee an enabling regulatory environment that supports economic growth.
Oversee compliance level on liquor licensing. Oversee compliance on business
licensing. Oversee the programme adherence to the maintenance of effective
and efficient transparent systems of financial management and effective
128
management of risks. Oversee the contribution by the Business Regulations
sector to job creation and regulation of informal businesses. Oversee
implementation of economic programmes. Manage and implement consumer
protection and regulatory strategies, administration of liquor and business
regulation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R. E. Mofokane Tel No: (018) 388 5823
POST 26/182 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 05/
DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package), 60%
or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office – Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Human Resource
Management / Public Administration / Public Management / Industrial
Psychology or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of
5 years relevant experience at a middle/senior management level or equivalent
to SMS level from other sectors. Client focussed HR strategist. A thorough
understanding of policy formulation and coordination. Proven experience in or
through understanding of the Human Capital Management and broader talent
management strategies. A good background in turnaround and change
management strategies. Experience and insight into legislation that impacts on
human resource practices and administration. A valid driver’s license.
Competencies: A result-driven, customer-focused approach, with excellent
planning, organisational communication (written and verbal) and presentation
skills. Analytical and innovative thinking. Knowledge of human and financial
resource management. Good computer literacy in the Microsoft Office suite
(Word, Excel and PowerPoint). The ability to work in highly pressured
environment and driven by a sense of urgency to meet deadlines. Leadership
skills. Research and policy formulation. Presentation and facilitation skills.
Executive report-writing skills. People management. Financial management.
Strategic planning. Project management. Change and knowledge
management. Negotiation skills. Knowledge of Government systems
(PERSAL).
DUTIES : Provide leadership and strategic direction in the Directorate. Ensure the
provision of comprehensive organisational development support. Co-ordinate
and integrate the service delivery programmes of the department. Manage and
utilise resource practice and administration. Manage overall employee
relations. Develop and manage employee health and wellness. Manage and
co-ordinate human capital planning, salaries and information systems services
that support the departmental strategy. Design and manage strategic human
resource training and development services. Manage and utilise resources in
accordance with relevant directives and legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M. J. Matebesi Tel No: (018) 388 1335
POST 26/183 : DIRECTOR: CONSUMER PROTECTION REF NO: 06/ DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package), 60%
or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in the related field as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience at a
middle/senior management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors.
A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
Programme and project management. Financial management. Change
management. Knowledge management and empowerment. Client orientation
and customer focus. Communication skills. Honesty and integrity. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Develop, implement and promote measures that ensure the rights and interests
of consumers. Render consumer education and service delivery services.
Provide for prohibition and control of unfair business practices in the interests
and protection of consumers. Investigate consumer complaints. Render
consumer affairs court services. Render consumer education and advisory
services. Ensure compliance and enforcement of legislation related to
commence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. C. Taoana Tel No: (018) 388 5959
129
POST 26/184 : DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN AND FLEET MANAGEMENT REF NO: 07/
DEDECT/2026/NW
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package), 60%
or 70% of the inclusive salary package must go into the basic salary.
CENTRE : Head Office - Mahikeng
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7) in Supply Chain Management
/ Financial Management / Economics / Auditing or equivalent qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience at a
middle/senior management level or equivalent to SMS level from other sectors.
Knowledge and experience in Supply Chain, Assets and Fleet management.
Must be computer literate and must have worked on an enterprise resource
planning (ERP) system. A valid driver’s license. Competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Programme and project management. An in-depth
knowledge of applicable financial legislations and regulations, including
exposure to Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Broad-
based black empowerment Act, Standards of Generally Recognised
accounting Practice and the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge and
understanding of Government imperatives and priorities. Knowledge and
understanding of the white paper on the transformation of public service
delivery (Batho Pele). Proven leadership, management, project management,
communication, interpersonal, conflict resolution, analytical and financial
management skills. Must be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction, leadership and management regarding Supply
Chain, Asset and Fleet Management functions. Develop, manage and execute
the key strategic objectives and business plans of the Supply Chain, Asset and
Fleet Management. Ensure the necessary organisational capacity is created
and managed for delivery on core operational requirements. Manage the
performance of the unit to ensure quality service delivery and achievement of
key strategic objectives. Ensure effective financial and human resources
management. Interpret, understand and implement Supply Chain Management
and asset management as contained in relevant legislation, regulations and
GRAP standards. Develop and implement relevant policies and procedures
with respect to Supply Chain, Asset and Fleet Management. Develop and
implement internal control procedures to ensure the effective functioning of the
unit and management of risk. Ensure sound contract management systems.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K. C. Molosiwa Tel No: (018) 388 5922
130
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/185 : SCIENTIST (PRODUCTION LEVEL): NUTRITION AND PRODUCT QUALITY
(ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 54/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R791 604 - Grade C: R1 189 767 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year Degree: BSc (Hons) or BSc (Agric) in Animal Science;
Compulsory registration with SACNASP (South African Council for Natural
Scientific Professions) as a Professional Natural Scientist in Animal Science;
Three years post-qualification experience in animal nutrition research; A valid
driving licence. Competencies: Working knowledge of the following:
Programme and project management; Scientific methodologies and models;
Computer-aided scientific applications; Technical report writing; Data analysis;
Policy development and analysis; Presentation skills; Mentoring. Skills in the
following: Team leadership; Analytical skills; Communication; Networking;
People management; Planning and organising; Problem solving and analysis;
Change management; Innovation; Computer literacy; Ability to work
independently; Proven ability to conduct research in animal nutrition.
DUTIES : Develop and implement farm animal research methodologies, systems and
standard operating procedures; Perform farm animal research data analysis
and compliance functions; Research and development; Human capital
development. It will be an advantageous to have the following: PhD in Animal
Science (Nutrition), Proven proficiency in feed formulation and a record of
publications in animal nutrition.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mulaudzi Tel No: (021) 808 5220
POST 26/186 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF THE HOD (ELSENDBURG) REF NO:
AGR 29/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience; A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of and working experience in the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
information pertaining to the line function; Project management; Operational
management practices; Procurement and tendering processes; Policy
131
development, and operational management, monitoring and review processes;
Modern systems of governance and administration; Public service procedures,
processes and systems; Regional and local political, economic and social
affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape;
Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South
African public sector; Public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives
and collective agreements; Functioning of the province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the
day; Labour Relations legislation and regulations; Performance management
in general; Planning, project management, data analytics, research, monitoring
and evaluation processes and procedures; Public Service reporting processes;
Human capital management and development; Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA); Skills in the following: Computer literacy;
Communication (written and oral); Interpersonal; Data analysis; Project
planning; Planning and organising; Presentation/facilitation/coaching &
mentoring; Stakeholder management; Report writing.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services: Provide administrative support in
respect of the budget; Coordinate the office administration functions- e.g.
typing, filing, file tracking system, dealing with correspondence, telephone;
Compile itinerary and submit trip approvals; Make subsistence and traveling
arrangements and submit all claims (transport, daily allowance and travel
allowances); Handle procurement, stores, budget control and give inputs on
budget; Analyse the relevant Public Service and Departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure that the applications
thereof is understood properly; Communication and liaising: Liaise with various
agricultural agents as well as the general public; Assist with the execution of
the inter- and intra- governmental function; Liaise with other provincial
departments and ministries as well with other government bodies on the three
spheres e.g. national departments, provincial governments, ministries and
local authorities; Review and direct internal and external correspondence /e-
mails / invitations to the relevant stakeholders; Render personal support to the
HOD; Managerial functions
ENQUIRIES : Dr Mogale Sebopetsa Tel No: (021) 808 5006
POST 26/187 : ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN: ANIMAL HEALTH: BOLAND
(KHAYELITSHA) REF NO: AGR 74/2025 R1
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma/B-Degree in Animal Health; A minimum of 1-
year appropriate post-qualification experience; Compulsory registration as an
Animal Health Technician with the South African Veterinary Council (SAVC) in
the appropriate field; A valid driving licence (Code EB or higher).
Competencies: Communication skills (written and verbal); Good planning and
organisational skills; Good interpersonal, analytical, and problem-solving skills;
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Outlook); Ability
to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Animal Disease Control; Import and Export Policy Control Perform
Epidemiology investigations; Veterinary Public Health; Animal welfare.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MB Cupido Tel No: (021) 808 5027
POST 26/188 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: AGRICULTURAL PARTNERSHIP FOR
YOUTH DEVELOPMENT (ELSENBURG) REF NO: AGR 17/2026 R1
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1-year relevant experience; A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Working knowledge of the following: IPS/LOGIS and BAS; Relevant legislation/
policies/ prescripts and procedures; Financial regulations and instructions to
ensure smooth administrative functioning of the financial administration and
procurement; knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment; Disciplinary code and procedures; People management; Skills in
132
the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, Outlook
and PowerPoint) and internet proficiency; Networking and presentation;
Communication (written and verbal); Planning and organising; Analytical;
Database management; Report writing; Interpersonal skills; Problem solving;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team; Proven ability to solve
problems innovatively; Work under pressure and meet deadlines.
DUTIES : Supervise implementation and administration of the external developmental
initiatives “EDI” Programmes: Comprehensive Agricultural Support Programme
(CASP); Agricultural Partnership for Youth Development (APFYD); Young
Professional Persons Programme (YPP); and Premiers Advancement of Youth
(PAY)/ Fist Working Experience; Coordination agricultural partnership for youth
development projects and internship; Administer internships, and the
Agricultural Partnership for Youth Development and Internship and bursaries
programmes; Perform administrative functions; Promotion of Agriculture as a
career path for youth (travel extensively to promote agriculture as a career of
choice throughout the Western Cape province, including working after hours
and weekends when required); People Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Constable Tel No: (021) 808 5044 / Ms I Stander Tel No: (021) 808 5448.
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/189 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ARTS AND CULTURE REF NO: CAS 17/2026
SALARY : R338 106- R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification), A minimum of 1-year relevant experience. A valid Code B (or
higher) driving licence. Competencies: Ability to capture and analyses data;
Excellent people skills; Writing and Reporting; Planning and Organising;
Following Instructions and Procedures in terms of the working environment.
Financial management in line with all financial prescripts; presentation skills;
communication skills; knowledge, understanding and technical experience in
technology and computer skills.
DUTIES : Render administrative support to the cultural facilities; Oversee the
maintenance and upgrades at cultural facilities; Provide financial management
support to the cultural facilities; Perform supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lindsay Jeptha at Lindsay.Jeptha@westerncape.gov.za.
POST 26/190 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LIBRARY SERVICE (HERMANUS REGION)
REF NO: CAS 18/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government.
133
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Computer Library; Clerical Duties; Data capturing;
Collecting statistics. Skills in the following: Written and verbal communication;
Planning and organising; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the region and affiliated public libraries;
Provide asset control support services; provide personnel administration
support services within the office; Provide financial administration support
services in the regional office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Maloyi at Naledi.Maloyi@westerncape.gov.za
POST 26/191 : FINANCE CLERK: LIBRARY ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: CAS 19/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies: Basic
knowledge of the following: Financial functions, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collate financial statistics; Insight of the
Public Service financial legislations, procedures and Treasury regulations
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual); Basic financial
operating systems such as Basic Accounting System (BAS), Logistical
Information System (LOGIS). Skills needed: Written and verbal
communication; Proven computer literacy (MS Excel, WORD, PowerPoint;
Numeracy.
DUTIES : Render Financial Accounting transaction: Receive invoices; Check invoices for
correctness, verification and approval (internal control); Process invoices
(capture payments); Filing of all documents; Collection of cash; Perform
Bookkeeping support services: Capture all financial transactions; Clear
suspense accounts; Record debtors and creditors; Process electronic banking
transactions; Compile journals; Render a budget support service: Collect
information from budget holders; Compare expenditure against budget; Identify
variances; Capture, allocate virements on budgets; Distribute documents with
regard to the budget; File all documents; Receive and capture cash payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483 2436
POST 26/192 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: LIBRARY SERVICE (STELLENBOSCH
REGION) REF NO: CAS 20/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Computer Library; Clerical Duties; Data capturing;
Collecting statistics. Skills in the following: Written and verbal communication;
Planning and organising; Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to the region and affiliated public libraries;
Provide asset control support services; provide personnel administration
support services within the office; Provide financial administration support
services in the regional office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Booysen Tel No: (021) 483 2332
POST 26/193 : REGISTRY/RECEPTION CLERK: ARCHIVE ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
SERVICES REF NO: CAS 21/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as
the ability to capture data, and operate computer; Working knowledge and
understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service;
Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment; Understanding of the work in registry. Skills in the following:
Numeracy skills; Literacy skills; Language skills; Good verbal and written
communication skills; Ability to work in a team.
134
DUTIES : Attend to clients; Handle telephonic and other enquiries received; Receive and
register hand delivered mail/files; Receive all mail; Sort, register and dispatch
mail; Distribute notices on registry issues; Opening and close files according
to record classification system; Filing/storage, tracing (electronically/manually)
and retrieval of documents and files; Complete index cards for all files; Open
and maintain franking machine register; Frank post, record money and update
register daily; Undertake spot checks on post to ensure no private post is
included; Lock post in postbag for messengers to deliver to Post Office; Open
and maintain remittance register; Record all valuable articles as prescribed in
the remittance register; Hand delivers and signs over remittances to finance;
Send wrong remittances back to sender via registered post and record
reference number in register; Keep daily record of number of letters franked;
Electronic scanning of files; Sort and package files for archives and distribution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Kupe Tel No: 021 483 0411
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. Kindly note that technical
support is only available from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16:00. Should you
experience any difficulties with your online application you may contact the
helpline on 0861 370 214. Please ensure that you submit your application on
or before the closing date as no late applications will be considered. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. By applying for this post, you are consenting to the Western Cape
Government contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment
reference. Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary
records and reasons for leaving. All shortlisted candidates must make
themselves available to be interviewed at a date, time and place as decided by
the selection panel. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intends to assess relevant functional elements of
the job and an interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. The successful candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) and submit
the certificate before he/she can be appointed to this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background in processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/
The successful candidate shall be subjected to a leadership assessment,
within one (1) month of appointment, to assess the managerial competencies
required for SMS members in the Public Service as specified under Chapter
Five (5) of the SMS handbook. This assessment shall be conducted to
determine an individual’s ability to lead, manage, and direct others and to
identify developmental gaps in core generic leadership and management
competencies. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The successful candidate
will be subject to security vetting; and the candidate will have to disclose her/his
financial interests. Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest, we receive
many applications for our posts, and as such will not be able to respond
personally to all applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10
weeks from close of the advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/194 : DIRECTOR: RED TAPE REDUCTION REF NO: DEDAT 22/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
135
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate legal qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA;
Minimum of 5 years’ experience middle and/or senior management experience.
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership; Knowledge of
government processes and procedures; Project and Programme Management;
Change Management; People Management and Empowerment; Excellent
written and verbal skills; Advanced knowledge of business development
support measures; and Financial Management.
DUTIES : Experience to identify and address regulatory and legislative blockages that
inhibit economic growth and development; Experience to identify and address
systemic process- and procedurally inefficiencies in business-facing services
that impede business efficiency and growth; Experience to advocate and
create awareness and support capacity-building amongst key stakeholders of
the imperative of red tape reduction; Experience to facilitate the resolution of
red tape enquiries and business complaints; Experience to lead recruitment
aligned to approved staffing plans, and drive employee development through
training, mentoring, and capacity-building initiatives to ensure sustained
service delivery excellence; Experience to oversee performance management,
evaluation, and recognition systems, while promoting sound labour relations,
maintaining discipline, and contributing to workforce, service delivery, and
information resource planning; Experience to lead the Directorate’s strategic
planning and business planning processes by continuously defining and
reviewing its objectives and priorities, monitoring performance against
measurable targets, ensuring legislative compliance and proper record-
keeping, and providing regular, high-level reporting to the Chief Director on
operational and strategic matters; Experience to oversee and direct the
Directorate’s budgeting processes, including preparation of annual and
adjustment budgets, ensuring effective and compliant financial and
procurement management, alignment of expenditure with strategic objectives,
robust contract and risk management, accurate reporting to oversight bodies,
and responsible management of assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr John Peters Tel No: (021) 483 9417
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/195 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: RED TAPE REDUCTION REF NO: DEDAT 24/2026
(2 Year Contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years management experience; A valid (Code B
or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving
abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: National and Provincial
instruments and legislation pertaining to Strategy Development and
Stakeholder management; Global, regional and local political, economic and
social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape;
Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South
African public sector; SMME sector, including policies, dominant issues, role-
players and service providers. Skills in the following: Written and verbal
communication; Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Analytical; Report writing; Interpersonal skills; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Identify blockages and inhibitors to economic growth and development;
Advocate and create awareness amongst stakeholders of the significance of
red tape; Facilitate the resolving of identified blockages and regulatory
restraints; Management of Human resources and Finance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Augustus at aeysha.augustus@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
136
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date, as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 26/196 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CAPE CATALYST REF NO: DEDAT 23/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ administrative or project management
experience in an economic development environment. Competencies: Working
knowledge of the following: Infrastructure Development/Sector Development;
Public administration; Applicable legislative and regulatory requirements,
policies and standards; Project Management; Relationship Management;
Monitoring and evaluation methods, tools and techniques; Skills in the
following: Numeracy; Computer Literacy; Language; Analytical; Planning and
organising; Problem solving; Research; Communication skills (written and
oral); Facilitation; Presentation; Monitoring and evaluation; Stakeholder
management; Project planning.
DUTIES : Provide project administration support in respect of projects and programmes:
Develop and prepare funding proposals for projects and programmes; Provide
project office services and administration as it relates to the programmes;
Develop and administer procurement processes or transfers of projects;
Develop terms of reference (Tor) and compliance processes; Oversee service
providers and implementing agencies compliance to terms and conditions of
projects; Monitor and evaluate project progress to ensure alignment of project
objectives; Identify project risks; Implement risk mitigation measures and
administer red tape challenges; Participate in strategic and decision-making
processes: Perform information gathering and analysis of finding; Compile an
inventory of data sources; Develop and administer databases and information
systems; Provide input in the development of strategies; Contribute to the
conceptualisation of projects and programmes aligned to the Department's
strategic framework and objectives; Coordinate suitable and preferred
stakeholders to the development and implementation of projects and
programmes: Formulate and implement stakeholder management strategies
related to projects and programmes; Develop and maintain the required
stakeholder relationships; Provide a secretariate service at stakeholder forums
and with task teams; Administer the stakeholder database; Develop and
implement communication and information sharing methods; Coordinate
Integrated Development Planning: Provide support to ensure alignment with
municipal Integrated Development Plans (IDP’s) and Spatial Development
Frameworks (SDFs); Assist with the spatial analysis and mapping of Cape
Catalyst projects in relation to the above; Liaise with municipal planning,
infrastructure and economic development officials to facilitate alignment;
Contribute to the preparation of planning inputs, alignment reports, briefing
notes and presentations for decision-making structures; Keep a log of
economic catalytic infrastructure opportunities emanating from provincial as
well as municipal infrastructure assets; Provide support in respect of budget
planning and financial management: Contribute to the preparation of short-
term (1 year) and longer-term (2-5 years) budget plans; Support the monitoring
of expenditure for the purpose of sound fiscal responsibility; Support the
preparation of consolidated financial reports for decision-making assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jan Bezuidenhout Tel No: (021) 483 5827
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
137
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (WCED)
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted by using the following URL
https://www.westerncape.gov.za/education via Google Chrome or Mozilla
Firefox.
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026
NOTE : The applicants are advised to read the foreword available on the WCED
website before applying for the post/s. Applications must be made via the
department’s on-line E-Recruitment system. The on-line system will
automatically generate a Curriculum Vitae; applicants are therefore required to
ensure that their profiles are fully completed. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. All applicants must
be SA Citizens/Permanent Residents or Non-SA Citizens with a valid work
permit. Applicants will be expected to be available for selection interviews and
competency assessments at a time, date and place as determined by Western
Cape Education Department (WCED). The Department reserves the right to
conduct pre-employment security screening and appointment is subject to
positive security clearance outcome. Applicants must declare any/pending
criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations against them.
Should this be uncovered post the interview the application will not be
considered for the post and in the unlikely event that the person has been
appointed such appointment will be terminated. If you have not been contacted
within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and
interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences,
emotional intelligence, and integrity.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/197 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: 325
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), an all-inclusive salary package consists of
a basic salary and the employer’s contribution to the Pension Fund. The
remainder of the package may be structured according to your personal needs.
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA. At least
5 years of experience at middle or senior management level. Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into Senior Management Service (SMS).
Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Applicable legislative and regulatory
framework. Principles and practice of financial accounting. Proven knowledge
of financial statements. Tools and techniques for accounting and reporting.
Government financial systems. Systems approach to solving problems.
Change management and people skills. The ability to give clear direction in
realising objectives and clear and concise communication. Leadership, team
building and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy (Excel, Word and
PowerPoint). Proficiency in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape.
DUTIES : Act as Departmental Accountant for the Western Cape Education Department.
Develop, implement, monitor and review departmental accounting policies,
138
procedures and processes. Responsible for the reconciliation and
management of the Departmental Bank Account. Manage own revenue
policies, tariffs, systems and procedures. Perform month-end and year-end
accounts closure process. Prepare the Quarterly and Annual Financial
Statements and supporting working papers. Manage liabilities and
commitments within budget constraints, including; recording, reconciliation and
settlement. Monitor Departmental Asset and Liability accounts. Manage
receivables due to the department, including; the recording, collection, banking
and write-off of irrecoverable amounts. Responsible for Salary Administration
and the pay-over of statutory deductions, i.e. tax, pensions, etc. Consolidate
and reconcile payroll data and prepare statutory and other payroll returns.
Maintain statutory and other required registers with supporting documents,
including but not limited to registers of unauthorised, fruitless and wasteful and
irregular expenditure and register of losses, damages and claims. Manage all
audit responses including the Auditor- General, Internal Audit and Forensic
Investigative Unit. Manage and maintain transversal financial systems. Identify
staff capacity needs and ensure training interventions. Manage directorate’s
budget in line with the strategic objectives of the Department. Provide strategic
direction for Financial Administration within the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Ely Tel No: (021) 467 2537
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 07 August 2026, 17:00 PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/198 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND
GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Inherent requirement of the
job: The successful candidate will be required to engage in the remunerated
commuted overtime system and participate in the after-hours call system.
Participation in the termination of pregnancy services. Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license, willingness, and ability to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): A proven ability to perform basic gynaecological and
139
obstetric ultrasounds is needed. The candidate must have an excellent track
record of clinical, research and educational skills. Clinical experience with high-
risk obstetrics, gynaecological surgery, and ultrasound is required. The ability
to achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations with staff, patients, and
their families is essential. Clinical notes and referral writing skills must be of a
high standard. Verbal and written communication skills as well as analytical
and problem-solving skills must be exemplary. Experience with teamwork,
planning, organisation and co-ordination of the safe management of a labour
ward is indispensable. Computer literacy in the use of MS Word and Excel, as
well as the ability to use online resources, is required.
DUTIES : Ensure the delivery of a safe, efficient, patient-centred, high-quality and cost-
effective clinical service that addresses the burden of disease within the Rural
West Health Ecosystem by providing comprehensive specialist obstetric and
gynaecological services, including the independent and safe performance of
major and minor gynaecological surgical procedures. Managing high-risk
obstetric patients and specialist gynaecology outpatient clinics, ensuring
evidence-based assessment, appropriate management, and continuity of care.
Performing and supervising complex obstetric procedures, including assisted
vaginal deliveries, breech deliveries, postpartum sterilisations, and
complicated caesarean sections. Performing and interpreting obstetric and
gynaecological ultrasound examinations and providing clinical supervision and
training to junior medical staff in ultrasound practice. Providing clinical
leadership, supervision, teaching, mentoring and skills development to medical
officers, registrars, interns, and other healthcare professionals to promote high
standards of clinical practice. -Ensuring the maintenance of accurate,
comprehensive and high-quality clinical records in accordance with legal,
ethical and departmental requirements. Complying with all applicable
administrative policies, legislation, protocols and prescripts of the Western
Cape Department of Health and Wellness. Promoting effective and efficient
utilisation of human, financial and material resources to support sound financial
management and service sustainability. Participating in undergraduate and
postgraduate teaching, in-service training, continuous professional
development, clinical governance, and quality improvement initiatives.
Contributing to the development, review and implementation of clinical
guidelines, protocols and standard operating procedures. Participating in
specialist outreach services to district hospitals within the Rural West Health
Ecosystem to strengthen service delivery, clinical support and capacity
building. Participating fully in the provision of termination of pregnancy services
in accordance with applicable legislation, ethical standards and departmental
policies.
ENQUIRIES : Dr H Le Riche, email: Heloise.LeRiche@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for registration for the first time in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
POST 26/199 : MANAGER: PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 375 245 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
South African Pharmacy Council as a Pharmacist. Experience: A minimum of
3 years’ appropriate experience after registration as a Pharmacist with the
SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Willingness to travel in the Metro. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong
leadership, inclusive of management, professional mentorship, organisation
and strategic planning. Project management skills. Computer Literacy and data
use and analysis. Appropriate experience in Pharmaceutical systems used in
140
the public sector. Appropriate supervisory/managerial experience. Appropriate
Training and experience in Drug Supply Management.
DUTIES : Strategic planning and implementation and monitoring and evaluation of
relevant policies. Technical support to the pharmacy staff and pharmacy for
quality assurance and clinical services governance. Overall leadership and
coordination of the Pharmacy services within the Khayelitsha/ Eastern Sub-
structure. Ensure good Pharmacy practices are institutionalised in the service
platform. In-depth knowledge of the Health Act, National Drug Policy,
Pharmacy Act, World Health Organisation and relevant policies of the WCG:
Health and Wellness.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JA Kruger Tel No: (021) 360-4622
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/200 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (EMERGENCY MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of I l years relevant experience after registration as a Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Advanced Cardiac Life Support
(ACLS), Advanced Paediatric Life Support (APLS/PALS) certification.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrated clinical experience and
competence in Emergency Medicine. Strong communication skills. Ability to
work effectively within a multidisciplinary team and engage professionally with
staff at all organisational levels. Commitment to teaching, training, and the
development of an academic career in Emergency Medicine. Sound clinical
decision-making and leadership skills in a high-acuity environment. Advanced
Trauma Life Support (ATLS) certification.
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive clinical management of all patients presenting to the
Emergency Centre, including neonates, children, adolescents, and adults.
Assess, stabilise, resuscitate, and manage critically ill and injured patients.
Supervise, support, and teach undergraduate students, interns, community
service officers, and healthcare professionals working within the Emergency
Centre. Participate actively in continuous professional development, quality
improvement initiatives, clinical governance activities, and academic
programmes. Participate in the departmental overtime roster as required.
Provide clinical support in other hospital departments when required to meet
service delivery needs.
ENQUIRIES : Dr P Cloete Tel No: (021) 799-1183 or email:
Philip.cloete@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirement, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
141
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for registration for the first time in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
POST 26/201 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Vredendal North Clinic, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to partake
in the commuted overtime system at Vredendal Hospital. Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
communication, leadership and computer skills. Sound knowledge of PHC
approach. Knowledge in managing PHC conditions. Knowledge of relevant
Acts, guidelines, Policies and regulations administered by Western cape
Health Department. Ability to work in a team.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Forensic Service provision. Service Management.
Training and Development. Research and support.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Ockuis Tel No: (027) 213-2037
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 26/202 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Vanguard CHC, Southern/Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
142
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA- qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign- qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform community service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to work within the Geographical area at various facilities.
Willingness to perform Commuted overtime at the geographical 24-hour
facilities as well as ability to work after-hours. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and management of general medical and
surgical conditions as well as emergency conditions at a PHC level. Experience
working at a Primary Care level after community service. Knowledge applicable
to South African TB and HIV care guidelines, mental health care and other
chronic diseases, woman and child health care and management of
emergencies and acute presentations. Comprehensive, evidence based, direct
patient-centered clinical service provision at a primary care level. Computer
literacy (MS Excel, Word, Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational
and teamwork skills. Ability and willingness to perform outreach services within
the Southern Western substructure and to provide support and guidance to
junior colleagues and nurses.
DUTIES : Provide quality clinical care to outpatients and emergency clients presenting at
primary care facilities in Southern Western Substructure. This includes chronic
care, HIV and TB, woman and child health, undifferentiated clients and
emergencies. Participate in skills transfer and training and development
activities. Active involvement in clinical governance activities at the facility and
in the substructure. Leadership and management at facility level.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Razack Tel No: (021) 200-4500
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written or oral assessment. Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 26/203 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R907 617 per annum
Grade 2: R1 055 292 per annum
Grade 3: R1 221 843 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Psychologist in Clinical Psychology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Psychologist. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration as with the HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of RSA
qualified employees. 1 Year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as a Psychologist in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
143
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 8 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of RSA qualified employees. Minimum of 9
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 16
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in
respect of RSA qualified employees. A minimum of 17 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Psychologist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
Driver’s License. Willingness to travel independently between wards and
service areas on hospital premises in the performance of your duties.
Willingness to arrange your own transport to attend occasional off-site
facilities/meetings in the performance of your duties. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of clinical psychology assessment,
diagnosis, psychotherapeutic interventions and psychometric assessment.
Ability to function effectively within a multidisciplinary mental health team in a
specialist psychiatric setting. Knowledge of relevant legislation including the
Mental Health Care Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Child Care and Protection
legislation, HPCSA ethical guidelines and applicable Department of Health
policies. Ability to provide psychological consultation, supervision, teaching
and training to students, interns and other healthcare professionals. -Good
organisational, administrative, report writing, problem-solving and time
management skills. Computer literacy and the ability to maintain accurate
clinical and statistical records. Excellent verbal and written communication.
Ability to work independently, demonstrate professional leadership, and adapt
to different clinical service environments.
DUTIES : Render comprehensive clinical psychology services including psychological
assessment, diagnosis, psychometric evaluation, risk assessment,
formulation, treatment planning and report writing. Provide evidence-based
individual, group and family psychotherapy and contribute to psychosocial
rehabilitation and mental health promotion programmes. Participate in
multidisciplinary clinical activities including ward rounds, case discussions, and
consultation and liaison services. Maintain clinical governance standards
through appropriate administration, record keeping, referral management,
statistics reporting and participation in quality improvement activities. -
Contribute to the training, supervision and evaluation of intern psychologists
and other students in accordance with HPCSA requirements. Participate in
academic, teaching, research, continuing professional development and
service development activities. Represent Psychology on relevant hospital and
departmental committees and contribute to the strategic development of
psychological services. Provide outreach, consultation and support services to
district hospitals, community facilities and other stakeholders as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Hawa, email: waseem.hawa@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 26/204 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R882 816 per annum
Grade 2: R954 339 per annum
Grade 3: R1 041 402 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-Structure Office (X1 Post)
Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-Structure Office (X1 Post)
Southern/Western Sub-Structure Office (X1 Post)
144
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
SAPC as a Pharmacist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA employees. One-year relevant
experience after registration as Pharmacist with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2:
A Minimum of 5 years relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with
a recognised foreign health professional council in respect of SA qualified
employees. 6 Years relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with
a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years relevant experience
after registration as Pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA qualified
employees. 14 years’ relevant experience after registration as Pharmacist with
a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required
in SA. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of National and
Provincial Health Policies and Pharmaceutical acts and laws and sound
understanding of GPP compliance Ability to work accurately under pressure
and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Sound Management,
communication and conflict handling skills. Computer literacy and experience
in quality and data management. Experience in working as a member of a
multidisciplinary team and in stakeholder engagement. training and capacity
development in pharmaceutical services.
DUTIES : Coordinate and manage pharmacy training, internship, community service and
learner programmes and ensure SAPC regulatory compliance, pharmacy
registrations, licensing and accreditation requirements. Provide guidance on
pharmacy legislation, Good Pharmacy Practice (GPP) standards and quality
assurance processes. Support tutor development, learner monitoring,
assessments and professional development programmes and provide
operational and service delivery support to pharmacy facilities, including acting
management responsibilities when required. Coordinate pharmaceutical
financial reporting, expenditure monitoring and statutory submissions and
contribute to workforce planning, capacity building and the establishment of
future training sites. Manage private provider pharmaceutical order processes
and statistical reporting. Coordinate and strengthen Antimicrobial Stewardship
(AMS) programmes to promote appropriate medicine use and clinical
governance and support and monitor cold chain management compliance
across facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Parker Tel No: (021) 815-8876 for NTSS, Mr J Van Niekerk Tel No: (021)
360-4641 for KESS, Mr A Joseph Tel No: (021) 202-0981 for SWSS
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
practical/written and oral assessment.
POST 26/205 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND OPD)
West Coast District
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or 4 year Bachelor Degree in
145
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in
Emergency Nursing or Critical Care Nursing (Adult). Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant speciality. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work
after hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of appropriate legislation, regulations and
Departmental Policies. Knowledge of Hospital and Emergency Centre Triage
Information System (HECTIS) and South African Triage System (Basic
knowledge and experience in human resource management, labour relations,
financial and supply chain procurement processes. Experience in the use of
clinical equipment and control of budget levels. The ability to promote quality
patient care through the setting, implementation, and monitoring of standards.
Effective communication, interpretation, leadership, execute discipline,
decision-making and conflict resolution skills.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards
and within a professional /legal framework. Manage effectively the utilisation
and supervision of resources. Coordination of the provision of effective training
and research. Provision of effective Support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Julius Tel No: (022) 487-9304
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
POST 26/206 : QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Four-Year Diploma/Degree or
equivalent in Health Sciences registerable with a South African Statutory
Health Professions Council or South African Nursing Council. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a health environment. Appropriate managerial
experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license
and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent computer
skills (MS Word. Excel and Power Point), sound interpersonal, managerial,
communication and leadership skills. Sound knowledge and appropriate
experience in Quality Assurance, Risk Management, Health and Safety and
Infection Prevention and Control. Good verbal and written communication
skills. Analytical, strategic thinking and creativity skills. Ability to capture,
interpret and compile reports. Ability to think and function independently and to
critically analyse data.
DUTIES : Engage with and live out the core values of the Western Cape Department of
Health & Wellness. Effective leadership and management of the institutional
Quality Assurance Plan. Effective people management within the Quality
Assurance Department. Formulate standard operating procedures and
strategies for quality improvement and drive implementation thereof. Effective
co-ordination, control, monitoring and evaluation of quality improvement, risk
management, Occupational health and safety and infection prevention and
control programs, in line with health policies and regulatory norms and
standards. Assist departments with achieving compliance with the Quality
Assurance Plan. Support and promote staff education and development
initiatives. Collect and analyse data and provide technical reports for internal
and external stakeholders. -As a member of the Executive Management
Committee, provide technical and strategic support to the CEO and the
Management team on all aspects of quality improvement, risk management,
occupational health & safety and infection prevention & control. Promote a
culture of excellence, accountability, continuous learning and patient-centred
care throughout the hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AN Parbhoo Tel No: (021) 658-5005
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
146
POST 26/207 : SOCIAL WORKER SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R496 668 per annum
Grade 2: R608 859 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification in Social Work that
allows for registration with the South African Council for Social Service
Professionals (SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with a Professional Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP) as a Social Worker. Experience: A minimum of 7 years appropriate
experience in social worker after registration as Social Worker with SACSSP.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of relevant legislation
including the Mental Health Care Act, Children’s Act and Domestic Violence
Act. Knowledge of hospital-based social work services and integrated health
and social development services delivery. Proven supervisory, leadership and
people management skills. Ability to manage statutory process, governance,
reporting and compliance. Excellent communication, report writing, problem
solving and decision-making skills. Computer literate (MS Office, data and
Information Management Systems).
DUTIES : Provide operational and professional leadership in the management of Social
Work services across all inpatients, outpatient and specialized service areas
within a large Metro District Hospital, including the Acute Psychiatric Unit.
Manage the social work department and provide clinical and administrative
supervision to social workers and students in accordance with SACSSP, OSD
and WCDOH prescripts. Ensure effective delivery of statutory, psychosocial
and mental social work services through quality assurance, case review and
ethical oversight. Coordinate social work input into multi-disciplinary patient
care, discharge planning and referral pathways to promote continuity of care
and reduce avoidable delays. Ensure compliance with relevant legislation,
policies, protocols and governance requirements, including accurate record
keeping and reporting. Manage service statistics, compile reports and
participate in audits, quality improvements initiatives and clinical governance
processes. Facilitate in-service training, capacity development and
professional development of staff and students.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Martin Tel No: (021) 360-4427
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/208 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 AND 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (X7 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Vanguard CHC (X2 Posts)
Du Noon CHC (X1 Post)
District Six CDC (X3 Posts)
Lotus River CDC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care accredited with the SANC (R48). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-graduate Diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Primary Care Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant speciality. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code
B/EB). Willingness to work overtime when necessary. Willingness to work at
147
other facilities within the Southern/Western Sub-Structure. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape. Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Assist with the provision of Comprehensive PHC clinical service to surrounding
communities. Plan and implement Health Promotion and Prevention activities
in facility and community as part of COPC. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders as part of the multi-disciplinary team. Clinical governance as part
of quality assurance. Information Management and timeous submission of
reports and participation in facility audits. Assist with management of human
resources and the development of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lingani Tel No: (021) 695-8200 - Vanguard CHC, Mr R Hall Tel No: (021)
200-4501-Du Noon CHC, Ms N Diedericks Tel No: (021) 833-5400-District Six
CDC, Ms Z Sambo Tel No: (021) 703-313- Lotus River CDC
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/209 : LECTURER NURSING GRADE 1 TO 2 (UNDERGRADUATE)
Western Cape College of Nursing
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Boland/Overberg, Southern Cape Karoo and Metro Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880 plus
R254) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Nursing Education (R212). Or A 4
year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus
R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Nursing Education. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/ recognisable nursing experience after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Possess good
communication (written & verbal) and presentation skills. Possess knowledge
of relevant Legislation, Acts, Prescripts and Policy frameworks informing the
area of operation. Knowledge of nursing education programmes and
curriculum. Proficiency in teaching and assessment in Nursing Education
including evaluation approaches. Knowledge of policy development,
interpretation, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. Sound conflict
management and decision making/problem solving skills. Good research and
analytical skills. Good managerial and interpersonal skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide education and training to student nurses. Coordinate clinical learning
exposure to students between college and clinical areas. Conduct clinical
accompaniment of students. Coordinate the teaching and learning of nursing
programmes. Develop and ensure implementation of quality assurance
programmes. Collaborate with other internal and external stakeholders and
build a sound relationship within the Department. Supervision of students.
Participate in the development and review of nursing curricula for
Undergraduate Diploma Programmes. Implements the new nursing
programmes in line with SANC and CHE regulations. Participate in the
provisioning of Continuous Professional Development (CPD) activities at the
Campus. Participate in all governance structures of the College. Support the
mission and promote the image of the College.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Magerman Tel No: (021) 684-1202 / Dr S Mottian Tel No: (044) 813-1993
(Southern Cape/Karoo Campus) / Ms L Strauss Tel No: (023) 814-0090
(Boland/Overberg Campus)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
148
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant speciality.
POST 26/210 : ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGER: CORPORATE SERVICES
Garden Route District
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital, Ladismith, and Kannaland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience and knowledge of the
management of support services with reference to people management,
finance and supply chain management and facility management and
supervision. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid driver’s (Code B/EB/C1)
license. Willingness to work overtime and be on standby. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Advanced computer literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Strong leadership, managerial,
organisational, strategic, operational and contingency planning skills.
Independent decision-making, problem-solving and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Efficient and effective strategic planning of the corporate services at Alan Blyth
Hospital and Kannaland Sub District with support to PHC Services.
Management of personnel administration, human resource development &
training, disciplinary procedures, labour relations, recruitment and selection
processes and staff performance assessment. Finance and supply chain
management. Management of hospital fees, admissions and medical records.
Effectively manages all facility-based support services and oversees
maintenance requirements. Support to Medical Manager and management
team.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Dreyer Tel No: (044) 203-7203
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical evaluation and competency test.
POST 26/211 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (MENTAL HEALTH)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the HPCSA as Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. One-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
Therapist. Minimum of 11-year relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in respect of foreign qualified employees,
of whom is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration
with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 21-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational therapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literate (Microsoft
Office). Knowledge of PFMA, Ideal Clinic, and other relevant policies,
protocols, and guidelines. Ability to work within a multidisciplinary team to
ensure holistic care. Report writing skills. Analytic thinking, independent
decision-making and problem-solving skills. Experience in community
Occupational Therapy services. Must be proactive, innovative and an
independent team leader. Experience in setting up treatment programs within
149
a PHC setting. Knowledge of mental health legislations and related legal and
ethical practices. Knowledge of public service acts and regulations.
DUTIES : Assessment and treatment of community mental health patients. Contribute to
the development and implementation of Occupational Therapy programs in the
community. Follow the relevant policies and SOPs within the Occupational
Therapy field. Administrative duties. Develop objectives and action plans for
own area of work. Co-ordination of services in the district. Contribution to the
awareness, promotion of mental health, and prevention of mental illness.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Van Der Schyff Tel No: (021) 799-1103
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 26/212 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in the field of Human
Resource Administration. Appropriate experience in the PERSAL system.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness
to drive between the various Cape Winelands Sub Districts. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and
PERSAL). Good knowledge and experience in Human Resource
Management. Ability to provide and facilitate training. Good interpersonal,
communication, presentation and writing skills.
DUTIES : Responsible for co-ordination, supervision and control of component as well as
support to supervisor. Assist with all transversal personnel practices, including
all employment practices, conditions of service and terminations and SPMS
within the district office and Sub districts. Render a support and advisory
service with regard to personnel administration and human resource
management. Provide training and advice with regards to all relevant HRM
policies, legislation, prescripts and procedure within the district to ensure the
correct implementation. Assist with the administration of FCE and Workplace
Assessments Monitor and enforce All CWD Institutions to comply with HR
policies. Coordination of HR Audit Action and CMI for the district Responsible
for audit compliance for the district. Responsible PILIR Administration for the
district. Render professional service with regards to district financial
Disclosures and ORW.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DW September Tel No: (023) 348-8100
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/213 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES (RECEPTION)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha CHC, Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative and supervisory experience in
reception. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
After-hours availability to provide administrative support for shift staff.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Strong
leadership abilities to ensure correctness of work. Advance computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). PHCIS, appointment system and duplication
reports. Extensive knowledge of Clinicom/PHCIS.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate registry services and folder management of the facility. Supervise,
manage and develop reception administration, including welcome helpdesk
Clerk with regards to recordkeeping, complaints management, switchboard
operation, folder hygiene and operating the patient registration system.
150
Responsible for MVA claims, J88. Assist the Facility Manager and Line
Managers with regards to the administrative management of the reception,
records management, archiving and disposal and revenue generation. Assist
with infrastructure, IT equipment and assets and submit daily statistics.
Manage HR functions, SPMS, training of subordinates, leave administration,
duty rosters, overtime, and assist with Labour Relations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Grootboom Tel No: (021) 360-5207
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/214 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Information Management. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) drivers’ licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (written and verbal) in at least
two of the three official languages of the Western Cape. Good working
knowledge and experience in Health Information System (SINJANI; PHCIS;
IDEAL CLINIC MONITORING SYSTEM & DHIS). Advanced computer literacy
in MS Windows (Word and Excel, Power Point & Outlook). Logical thinker, with
an eye for detail and ability to produce accurate and reliable outputs within a
pressured and deadline driven environment.
DUTIES : Co-Ordinate all health statistics in sub-structure. Data verification and
submission to district information office in prescribed format, within set time
frames and according to the Information Management Policy. Conduct and
assist with audits at facility level. Participate in Sub-structure health information
co-ordinating activities. Supervision and staff performance management.
Information management support to all health facilities within sub-structure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Khonono Tel No: (021) 360-4624
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be required to undergo a competency assessment.
POST 26/215 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: SURGERY FEMALE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse or General Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional Nurse with the
SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and
weekends. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the facility excluding
maternity. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Nursing Care
processes and procedures Nursing Act. Problem solving and decision-making.
Report writing skills. Good interpersonal skills. Health promotion and team
building.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. -Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. -Utilise human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
151
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Arendse Tel No: (021) 860-2564 or email:
Stephanie.Arendse@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
POST 26/216 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: PALLIATIVE CARE)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. OR A
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse or General Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate /
recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work overtime as or when required. Willingness to
undergo palliative care training. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent
theoretical and clinical knowledge in general nursing and experience in/
knowledgeable about palliative care. Passionate about palliative care. Flexible,
responsive, critical and creative thinking, complex problem-solving skills, ability
to work collaboratively within the MDT and between internal and external
teams. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate the provision of holistic institutional nursing care to patients in an
environment which promotes core values and human dignity. Ensure that
quality of nursing care is facilitated cost effectively, efficiently and equitable
whilst at the same time ensuring compliance to the requirements of
professional and ethical practices. Ensure realisation of strategic goals and
objectives of the Palliative unit with regards to inpatient and outpatient care.
Ensure supportive role from ward staff i.r.o end of life patients, receiving and
referrals of patients, performing patient assessments and ensuring patients
and appropriately managed and monitored by mentoring and guiding ward staff
appropriately. Ensure that effective health promotion and comprehensive
health care are in place for treatment of patients and ensure the effective
utilisation of resources to provide quality and sustainable patient care.
Coordination of relevant monthly meetings, liaising and communication with
the multi-disciplinary teams, effective utilisation of training and research
opportunities and effective administrative management of reporting on
Palliative care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Rust, email: Magda.Rust@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
152
POST 26/217 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING:
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the Provincial HIV/AIDS/STI/TB programmes and the Strategic
Plan. Computer literacy (MS Word, PowerPoint and Excel). Ability to work
independently and in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of the Mental Health
Care Act, Child Care Act, Nursing Act and other relevant legislation.
Appropriate experience working with HIV/AIDS/TB patients.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care to mental users with set standards
within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in training and research.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Gayiya Tel No: (021) 940-4424
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 26/218 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: CLINICAL
FACILITATOR)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
outside of normal working hours. Willingness to attend congresses/courses /
workshops. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Professional
Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the
Department of Health Western Cape. Knowledge of the nursing processes &
procedures as outlined in Nursing Act and the SANC regulations. Skills to plan,
organise & coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving & decision
making. Leadership towards the realisation of strategic goals and objectives of
the nurse training department.
153
DUTIES : Facilitate the development of learning opportunities for all nursing personnel.
Facilitate the in-service training /updating of skills and competencies as well as
the orientation programme for nurses. Evaluate and assess the competencies
and skills of nursing personnel and personal development. Ensure the
appropriate placement and accompaniment of nursing personnel. Assist with
the effective management and utilisation of physical, material and financial
resources within the nurse training department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WA Klein Tel No: (044) 802-4327
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidate will
be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 26/219 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Otto Du Plessis Hospital, Cape Agulhas Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts (weekends, public holidays and nights) and
willingness to work overtime when necessary. Willingness to rotate within the
different departments of the hospital. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(Clinical practice/quality patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria,
and indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice). Practice nursing and
health care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and
health care. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Adams Tel No: (028) 424-1167
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
154
POST 26/220 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (X2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital, Southern/Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s
Assistant (Post-Basic) Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s License
(Code B/EB) and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
computer literacy. Fluent in JAC. Ability to work as part of a team or
independently. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Assist with issuing of pharmaceutical products and ensure quality provision of
Pharmaceutical Care, including prescription evaluation. Working under both
direct and indirect supervision of a pharmacist within the Atlantis basin which
includes Mamre CHC. Assist with the control of stock by managing the safe
and reliable procurement, storage, control and distribution of quality
pharmaceuticals. Assist with the packing of pharmaceuticals products. Assist
with the control and distribution finished pharmacy products. Assist with the
collation and organizing of information for research purposes and any
reasonable job-related requests within the scope of practice of the Pharmacist
Assistant: Post Basic.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Moosa Tel No: (021) 816-8551
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 26/221 : PERSONNEL OFFICER: ADVERTISING
Directorate: People Practices and Administration
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, and Outlook). Good accurate typing skills.
Good organising skills. Good interpersonal skills
DUTIES : Process and draft request for advertising. Weekly placement of adverts in the
external media, Public Service Vacancy Circular, Government website and
online portal. Process invoices from the service provider for payment of
accounts to Finance. Effective and efficient record keeping with regards to
advertising of posts. Liaise with districts/institutions with regard to problematic
requests and follow up all pending request on a regular basis. Provide
assistance to HR Officers with regard to the advertising online portal
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Brenton Tel No: (021) 483-5009
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/222 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
155
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management and Finance Administrative processes. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. -Willingness to
travel and work overtime when required. Expected to travel between O&P
Centre and Brackengate Facility to provide support when operationally
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of LOGIS, EPS, CSD,
WCSEB, ESL, SCOA and BAS Systems. Knowledge of the PFMA, National
and Provincial Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Accounting Officer’s
System of the Department of Health including delegations. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, Outlook). Good communication and interpersonal skills.
Ability to function independently as well as in a multi-disciplinary team. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of the PFMA, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Accounting Officer’s -
System of the Department of Health including delegations. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Ability to function independently as well as in a
multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Assist end-users with compilation of specifications. Ensure effective and
efficient procurement are done in time, as per approved Budget. Capture
requisitions and other documentation of the Supply Chain (LOGIS) system.
Communicate and take minutes for the Quotation Committee. Capturing and
processing of LOGIS and BAS payments on receipt and in compliance to the
PFMA, NTR’s, PTI’s and Departmental Finance Instructions and Circulars.
Follow up on outstanding commitments. File all relevant documentation and
ensure audit compliance. Handle supplier queries and regular communication
with end-users. Provide support to colleagues and supervisors. Processing of
acquisition for goods or services. Maintenance of warehouse, i.e. receiving and
issuing of goods, storage of goods, inventory control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Jainodien Tel No: (021) 370-2311
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/223 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital patient administration
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts
(weekends, public holidays and night shift) Including overtime and rotation as
per operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work both
independently and within a team. Knowledge of hospital fees policies and
procedures. Good interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Clinicom & HECTIS patient reception functions that include attendances &
disposals as per PGWC Hospital Fees policies and procedures. Booking of
appointments & patients transport on Healthnet. Attending to patient queries
(both verbal and written). Responsible for receiving, handling and safekeeping
of state money. Various Reception tasks or duties assigned to you by
immediate supervisor. Covering for colleagues and relief between departments
as per operational needs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Sedres Tel No: (021) 799-1144
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/224 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE/ADMIN (FEES)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent)
with Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior
Certificate (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate experience in a Fees-
related environment dealing with Clinicom Patient Administration. Inherent
requirements of the job: Rotate between departments as per operational
requirements if required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy.
(MS Office, MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Knowledge and
156
experience in Clinicom, Accounts Receivable (AR) system, Basic Accounting
System (BAS), Uniform Patient Fees Schedule (UPFS) manual, Hospital
Memorandum 18, JAC and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
DUTIES : Perform cashier duties, including allocation of external funders and debtor
payments as well as completion of all BAS transactions e.g., deposits, day-
ends, journals and special journals. Complete the balancing and reconciliation
processes between BAS and AR System. Follow-up on medical aid and non-
medical aid outstanding invoices in line with Hospital Fees Manual Chapter 18
and related finance instructions, including management of foreign debtors.
General fees administration and account-related duties/enquiries as per UPFS
and billing requirements. Control the JAC Information and JAC Error Report.
Relief colleagues and undertake various other clerical duties as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Arendse Tel No: (021) 860-2580 or email:
Raymone.Arendse@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/225 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Service Priorities Coordination, Increasing Wellness
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
driver’s license. Willingness to travel throughout the Province. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of public health, project
management, health promotion and cross-sectoral partnership. Good
interpersonal and research skills. Computer literacy (MS suite, and digital
platforms). Administrative skills. Ability to prioritise and organise work, exercise
self-discipline and function under pressure, to work independently and in a
team. Creativity, self-motivation, assertiveness and ability to innovate and take
initiative.
DUTIES : General Office Administration across Life Course Priority Areas. Provide
logistical coordination and event management support for provincial, district,
and intersectoral campaigns across the life-course portfolios. Support the
financial and supply chain management (SCM) processes of the unit to ensure
the timely acquisition of resources and compliance with financial guidelines.
Record Keeping, Database Maintenance, and Monitoring and evaluation
Support.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Fortune Tel No: (021) 815-8667
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
POST 26/226 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (VARIOUS COMPONENTS) (X8 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
work shifts and after-hours including weekends, public holidays and night duty.
Willingness to rotate to other departments. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand
for long hours and lift heavy equipment. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of Nursing Practices. Knowledge of Infection Prevention Control,
control measures and practices. Ability to interpret basic clinical signs and
symptoms. Basic computer literacy.
157
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth, ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Wulff Tel No: (021) 404-2109
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 26/227 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (OPD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council as Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
none, Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience in nursing after
registration as Staff Nurse with SANC, Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after registration as Staff
Nurse with SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover for nursing.
Willingness to rotate within the hospital in different wards. Ability to work under
pressure. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic communication skills (both
written and verbally). Ability to function as part of a team. Good human
relations. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and safe standard.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JJ Phillips, email: Jessica.phillips@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 26/228 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (THEATRE AND TRAUMA)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, night duty, including weekends, public holidays as well as overtime.
Willingness to assist in the other wards in the hospital and at the clinics in the
Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal relationships. Self- discipline and motivation.
Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a team across the service
platforms.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care. Provide basic clinical
nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self- development. Take actions to
improve quality of nursing care. Participate in infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JCB Kiewiet Tel No: (023) 414 -8200
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
158
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 26/229 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (ELECTRICAL)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Metro West, Zwaanswyk, Station Road Retreat
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Grade 10 or equivalent. Experience: Appropriate
experience of maintenance and repairs of electrical components. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to operate and use required tools and
equipment skilfully and safely. Ability to perform heavy physical labour. A valid
(Code B) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Conversant with
the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Acts.
DUTIES : Perform standby duties. Carry out minor maintenance and repairs of electrical
fixtures and components. Assist with repairs and emergency breakdowns
(including after-hours repairs). Assist with the control and requisitioning of
material and parts. Clean areas where work has been carried out. Ensure that
all tools and materials are available before commencing any tasks. Assist the
artisan Cadre in the execution of their respective duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Bosman Tel No: (021) 918-1632
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 26/230 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (UROLOGY) (SESSIONAL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
(24 hours per week) (A Total of 24 sessions will be filled. The number of
sessions will be finalized at interview stage not exceeding 20 sessions per
appointment)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Urology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Urology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Urology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Urology. Inherent requirement of the job: A Valid Driver’s
licence Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to successfully run an
extremely busy Urology service on a district level. Tertiary knowledge and skills
in the field of emergency Urology as well as district level elective Urology.
Strong ethical principles and relevant clinical and counselling skills. Computer
literacy. Leadership-, interpersonal- and organisational skills. Appropriate
experience in trauma and emergency Urology surgery as the primary surgeon
and treating specialist.
DUTIES : Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist level across the full spectrum
of general Urologic Surgery. The specialist primary responsibility would be
trauma and emergency Urology at district level. Provision of clinical service
delivery at specialist level of elective Urology Surgery (district level).
Supervision of clinical and operative activities of Urology surgeons- in- training.
Active participation in the postgraduate and undergraduate teaching
programmes of the Division of Urology. Effective management and
administration of a wide range of “Portfolios” and develop, conduct and
159
supervise research projects. Training and Teaching of medical officers and
Urology registrars and relevant burden of disease Research and Audits.
ENQUIRIES : Prof H Bougard Tel No: (021) 402-6444
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/231 : ARCHITECT (PRODUCTION LEVEL): EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE
REF NO: DOI 63/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R791 604 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B degree in Architecture or relevant qualification; Three years
post-qualification relevant architectural experience; Compulsory registration
with SACAP (South African Council for the Architectural Profession) as a
Professional Architect; A valid driving licence. Competencies: Working
knowledge of the following: Technical: Programme and project management;
Architectural design and analysis knowledge; Computer-aided architectural
applications; Research and development; Knowledge of legal compliance;
Technical report writing; Creating high performance culture; Networking;
Professional judgment. Generic: Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical
skills; Creativity; Self-management; Financial management; Customer focus
and responsiveness; Communication; Computer literacy; Planning and
organising; Conflict management; Problem solving and analysis; People
management; Change management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Perform architectural activities on state-owned or leased buildings, structures
or facilities: Co-ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding
architecture; Ensure adherence and compliance to legal, safety and health
requirements; Provide architectural advice and technical support in the
evaluation of solutions; Ensure the adoption of technical and quality strategies;
Develop architectural related policies, methods and practices; Provide solution
on non-compliance and failure of designs; Review plans, drawings,
specifications, and estimates prepared by building designers and/or sub-
professional personnel; and ensure adherence to the requirements of
professional registration; Human Capital Development: Mentor and train
candidate architects and related technical and administrative personnel to
160
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound architectural
principles and code of practice; Supervise architectural work and processes;
and Administer performance management and development; Office
administration and budget planning: Manage resources, prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilisation; Ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and SCM; Monitor and control
expenditure; Report on expenditure and service delivery; Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on architecture to
improve expertise; and Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on architectural-
related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C du Plooy at candice.duplooy@westerncape.gov.za
POST 26/232 : ARCHITECT (PRODUCTION LEVEL): HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE REF
NO: DOI 66/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R791 604 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B degree in Architecture or relevant qualification; Three years
post-qualification relevant architectural experience; Compulsory registration
with SACAP (South African Council for the Architectural Profession) as a
Professional Architect; A valid driving licence. Competencies: Working
knowledge of the following: Technical: Programme and project management;
Architectural design and analysis knowledge; Computer-aided architectural
applications; Research and development; Knowledge of legal compliance;
Technical report writing; Creating high performance culture; Networking;
Professional judgment. Generic: Decision making; Team leadership; Analytical
skills; Creativity; Self-management; Financial management; Customer focus
and responsiveness; Communication; Computer literacy; Planning and
organising; Conflict management; Problem solving and analysis; People
management; Change management; Innovation.
DUTIES : Perform architectural activities on state-owned or leased buildings, structures
or facilities: Co-ordinate professional teams on all aspects regarding
architecture; Ensure adherence and compliance to legal, safety and health
requirements; Provide architectural advice and technical support in the
evaluation of solutions; Ensure the adoption of technical and quality strategies;
Develop architectural related policies, methods and practices; Provide solution
on non-compliance and failure of designs; Review plans, drawings,
specifications, and estimates prepared by building designers and/or sub-
professional personnel; and ensure adherence to the requirements of
professional registration; Human Capital Development: Mentor and train
candidate architects and related technical and administrative personnel to
promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound architectural
principles and code of practice; Supervise architectural work and processes;
and Administer performance management and development; Office
administration and budget planning: Manage resources, prepare and
consolidate inputs for the facilitation of resource utilisation; Ensure adherence
to regulations and procedures for procurement and SCM; Monitor and control
expenditure; Report on expenditure and service delivery; Research and
development: Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on architecture to
improve expertise; and Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on architectural-
related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E du Plooy at Etienne.duPlooy@westerncape.gov.za
POST 26/233 : PROFESSIONAL ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
EDUCATION INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: DOI 32/2026 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - R975 582 per annum
Grade B: R1 030 296 - R1 109 925 per annum
Grade C: R1 172 184 - R1 376 199 per annum
(Salary will be determined based on post registration experience as per OSD
prescript).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Electrical Engineering Degree [B Eng/BSc (Eng)] or relevant
qualification; Three years post qualification engineering experience required;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a professional engineer; A valid code B
161
driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Programme and
project management; Engineering design and analysis; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Knowledge of legal
compliance and formulation of policies in a multi-disciplinary professional
environment; Technical report writing; Creating high performance culture;
Professional judgement; Networking. Skills in the following: Decision making;
Team leadership; Analytical skills; Creativity; Self-management; Financial
management; Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication;
Computer literacy (MS Office); Planning and organising; Conflict management;
Problem solving and analysis; People Management; Change Management;
Innovation; Willingness to travel on a regular basis; Experience of contract
documentation and administration, act/regulations of Occupation Health &
Safety (OHS-Act), National Building Regulations and all relevant built
environment legislation; knowledge of public sector procurement; Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Design new systems to solve practical engineering challenges and improve
efficiency and enhance safety: Plan, design, operate and maintain engineering
projects; Develop cost effective solutions according to standards; Evaluate
existing technical manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate
new technology; Develop tender specifications; Ensure through evaluation that
planning and design by others is done according to sound engineering
principles and according to norms and standards and code of practice; and
Approve engineering works according to prescribed norms and standards;
Human capital development: Ensure training and development of technicians,
technologists and candidate engineers to promote skills/knowledge transfer
and adherence to sound engineering principles and code of practice; Supervise
the engineering work and processes; and Administer performance
management and development; Office administration and budget planning:
Manage resources and prepare and consolidate inputs for the facilitation of
resource utilisation; Ensure adherence to regulations and procedures for
procurement and personnel administration; Monitor and control expenditure;
and Report on expenditure and service delivery; Research and development:
Continuous professional development to keep up with new technologies and
procedures; Research/literature studies on engineering technology to improve
expertise; and Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Potgieter Tel No: (021) 483 4881
POST 26/234 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROAD
INVESTMENT PLANNING REF NO: DOI 44/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - Grade C: R1 376 199 per annum, (Salary will be
determined based on post registration experience as per OSD prescript).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Civil Engineering Degree (B Eng/ BSC(Eng)) or relevant qualification; Three
years post-qualification engineering experience required; Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer; A valid code B or higher
driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Transport
modelling theory and software; Traffic analysis and assessment of traffic
studies and proposals; Transport planning legislation and environment to
include: National Land Transport Act (Act 5 of 2009); Spatial Planning and Land
Use Management Act (Act 16 of 2013); Road infrastructure design with a
particular focus on project identification and road planning; Project evaluation
and assessment in terms of: Economic Assessment; Multi-Criteria
Assessment; Corridor Management Strategies and Arterial Management
Plans; Data Management; Skills needed: Preparation of written proposals and
submissions; Written and verbal communication; Analytical; Evidence-based
decision making; Self-management to include planning and organising;
Customer focus and responsiveness; Conflict management; Proven computer
literacy; Innovation.
DUTIES : Development and evaluation of project proposals with and without model
assessment; Transport model management; Development and management
of transport model standard operating procedures; Development and
management of Road Investment Strategy; Development and management of
Corridor Management Strategies; Management of consultants and internal
projects; Liaison with various stakeholders in the transport infrastructure
planning environment.
162
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Barker at (076) 716 0984 or Melissa.Barker@westerncape.gov.za
POST 26/235 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: DOI
65/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Accounting, Financial Management, or a related field; A
minimum of 3 years relevant experience in management accounting,
budgeting, or a financial project management environment. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and
Treasury Regulations; Management accounting principles (budgeting,
monitoring and reporting); Government financial systems (e.g. BAS, LOGIS,
SCOA); Applicable legislative, regulatory and governance frameworks;
Financial analysis, data management and reporting methodologies. Skills in
the following: Financial analysis and reporting; Budgeting and forecasting;
Computer literacy (intermediate or advanced MS Excel, MS Word, MS
Outlook); Numeracy and analytical thinking; Planning and organising;
Communication (written and verbal); Problem-solving and decision-making;
Data management and reconciliation; Report writing and presentation;
Stakeholder engagement; Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines;
Attention to detail and accuracy.
DUTIES : Provide Budget Planning and Preparation; Provide Budget Support and
Financial Control; Calculate Adjustments Estimate and Main Budget
Development; Maintain Financial Governance, Compliance and Stakeholder
Support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Solomons Tel No: (021) 483 6008
POST 26/236 : ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
ENGINEERING SERVICES (HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE) REF NO: DOI
62/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R407 337 - Grade C: R610 131 per annum, (Salary will be determined
based on post registration experience as per OSD prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma in Electrical Engineering or relevant qualification; Three
years relevant post qualification technical (Engineering) experience;
Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA)
as an Engineering Technician; A valid code B driving licence. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Technical: Project Management knowledge and
experience: Technical design and analysis knowledge; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering; AutoCAD drawing; Knowledge of
legal compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting; Generic:
Problem solving and analysis; Decision making; Team work; Creativity;
Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication; Computer skills; People
Management; Planning and Organising; Change Management; Good
analytical, interpersonal and organisational skills; Good verbal and written
communication skills; Computer literacy (MS Project, Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Render technical services; Assist Engineers, Technologists and associates in
field, workshop, and technical office activities; Promote safety in line with
statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals,
standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and review
and or produce technical designs with specifications and submit for evaluation
and approval by the relevant authority; Perform administrative and related
functions; Provide input into the budgeting process as required; Compile and
submit reports as required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical/engineering operational plan; Develop, implement and maintain
databases and supervise and control technical and related personnel and
assets; Research and development; Continuous professional development to
keep up with new technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on
technical engineering technology to improve expertise and liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Du Plooy Tel No: (021) 483 8261
163
POST 26/237 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: IMMOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DOI 64/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering secretarial/ administrative support services to management/ senior
management; A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with
disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to
transport, may also apply. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: General
Support; Financial Support; Record keeping; Relevant policies and
procedures. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal); Good
interpersonal and decision-making skills; Planning and Organising; Ability to
work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager; Render
administrative support services; Provide support to the manager regarding
meetings; Support the manager with the administration of the manager’s
budget; Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/
policies and other documents and ensure that the application thereof is
understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Rohlwink at (082) 048 8966
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. Kindly note that technical
support is only available from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16:00. Should you
experience any difficulties with your online application you may contact the
helpline on 0861 370 214. Please ensure that you submit your application on
or before the closing date as no late applications will be considered. The
selection process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing
department. By applying for this post, you are consenting to the Western Cape
Government contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment
reference. Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary
records and reasons for leaving. All shortlisted candidates must make
themselves available to be interviewed at a date, time and place as decided by
the selection panel. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected
to a technical exercise that intends to assess relevant functional elements of
the job and an interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. The successful candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) and submit
the certificate before he/she can be appointed to this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background in processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/
The successful candidate shall be subjected to a leadership assessment,
within one (1) month of appointment, to assess the managerial competencies
required for SMS members in the Public Service as specified under Chapter
Five (5) of the SMS handbook. This assessment shall be conducted to
determine an individual’s ability to lead, manage, and direct others and to
identify developmental gaps in core generic leadership and management
competencies. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and a performance agreement. The successful candidate
will be subject to security vetting; and the candidate will have to disclose her/his
financial interests. Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest, we receive
many applications for our posts, and as such will not be able to respond
164
personally to all applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10
weeks from close of the advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 26/238 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC PARTICIPATION REF NO: LG 17/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government. Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : A B-degree (NQF 7), as recognised by SAQA; 5 years’ middle / senior
management level experience. Competencies: Strategic Management;
Change management; Programme and Project Management; People
Management; Financial Management.
DUTIES : Line Management; promote public participation through providing guidance
and assistance with regards to the institutionalisation and functionality of
municipal ward committees; promote meaningful involvement in the affairs of
local government with reference to the effectiveness and functionality of a ward
committee; ensure proper management and oversight of the Community Works
Programme in the Province; provide guidance and assistance to the
department and municipalities regarding the institutionalisation of human
rights; support with communication initiatives in municipalities; Strategic
Management (including change management); People Management; Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Zamxaka Tel No: (021) 483 4449
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/239 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DISASTER PREPAREDNESS & RESPONSE
(TYGERBERG) REF NO: LG 19/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 years National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in middle management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Disaster Management Act (Act 57
of 2002) as amended; Disaster preparedness and response; Working
experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best
practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Information systems that
aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Project management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources and discourse management processes; Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning
of the province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Policies of the government of the day; Labour Relations legislation and
regulations. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills (written and verbal); Crisis
Management; Project Management; Risk analysis; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Manage the Provincial Disaster Management Centre; Provide Support and
assist the District and City of Cape Town Centres; Develop and maintain a
provincial contingency plan (preparedness and response) and disaster
management plans; Manage the disaster response operations; Manage the
evaluation/ review/ development of disaster management contingency plans;
To oversee and manage people and financial management; Plan and manage
the work of and account for the overall performance of the Sub-directorate; To
manage leadership & strategic management of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sonja Chinnian Tel No: (021) 937 6306
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
165
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 26/240 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DISASTER INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
(TYGERBERG) REF NO: LG 18/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Local Government, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3 years National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in the disaster
management field. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Disaster
Management Act (Act 57 of 2002) as amended; Sound stakeholder forum
management; Best practice regarding disaster management and fire rescue
services; Knowledge of and working experience with the legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
information pertaining to the line function; Project management, labour
practices and performance management; Operational management practices;
Procurement and tendering processes; Policy development, and operational
management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public
finance, human resources management processes; Public Finance
Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury; Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements; Functioning
of the Province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Policies of the government of the day. Skills in the following: Computer literacy
in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Communication skills
(written and verbal); Crisis Management; Project Management; Risk analysis;
Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : To assist with the coordination and facilitate: Establish the functioning of IGR
Disaster Management structures in the province, including Workgroups;
Collate, compile and submit Disaster Management Annual Report and
responsible for Monitoring and Evaluation related reporting; Develop disaster
management (DM) legislation and frameworks; Coordinate Special Events and
Disaster Management, disaster response, including standby duties, and
coordinating media enquiries; Responsible for capacity-building initiatives; To
assist with the management of human resources, performance management,
financial management, leadership & strategic management in the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Chinnian Tel No: (021) 937 6306
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
166
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
DEPARTMENT OF POLICE OVERSIGHT AND COMMUNITY SAFETY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/241 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: COMMUNITY POLICE RELATIONS
REF NO: POCS 04/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years relevant experience; A valid (Code B or
higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of and working experience of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Community development and client liaison (internal and external);
Service delivery orientations; Information systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Project
management; Operational management practices; Policy development, and
operational management, monitoring and review processes; Modern systems
of governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape. Skills in the following:
Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skill (written and verbal); Strategic planning; Facilitation;
Organisation building; Problem-solving; Report writing; Negotiation,
motivational, monitoring and evaluation; Ability to work independently and as
part of a team.
DUTIES : Support and maintain good relations between the Department and safety
partners (i.e. Community Police Forums (CPFs), Neighbourhood Watch
(NHWs), district municipalities, Community Safety Forums (CSFs), South
African Police Services (SAPS); Administer the Community Safety funding
system; Conduct formal assessments on the functionality of the safety partners
[e.g. Community Safety Forums (CSFs); Facilitate effective and efficient
communication with safety partners and stakeholders; Managerial/Supervisory
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Justin Lottring at (079) 323 2502
167
POST 26/242 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INSTITUTION OF SOFT SECURITY REF NO:
POCS 03/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Police Oversight and Community Safety, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : A grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics; Understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service; Working procedures in
terms of the working environment; Skills needed: Computer Literacy; Planning
and organisation; Good verbal and written communication; Interpersonal
relations; Flexibility and Teamwork.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services for the sub-directorate: Record,
organise, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line function),
update registers and statistics; Provide supply chain clerical support services
within the component: Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation
to procurement of goods and services, obtain quotations and complete
procurement forms for the purchasing of inventory; Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component: Keep and
maintain a leave and attendance registers for the component, keep and
maintain personnel records in the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component: Liaise with stakeholders to receive and
review Community Safety Partnership Funding (CSPF) reports and payments,
process CSPF payments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Daniels at 082) 7919 184
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/243 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RISK ADVISOR REF NO: DOTP 41/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree); A
minimum of 3 years' relevant experience; A valid Code B (or higher) driving
licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Extensive knowledge of
enterprise risk management frameworks and working principles; familiarity with
public sector legislative and regulatory knowledge such as PFMA and national
treasury risk management regulations. Applicable legislation and regulatory
frameworks. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Excellent Communication skills (written and verbal); Ability to deal with various
levels of management and exercise utmost discretion in respect to sensitive
and confidential information. Negotiation skills; Analytical and problem-solving
168
skills; Advisory and personal judgement skills; facilitation and stakeholder
engagement skills; planning, organising and time-management skills;
relationship and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : To supervise and implement the risk management framework in the
organisation; Implement and maintain the enterprise risk management policies,
strategies and operational plans; Ensure risk mitigation and control support;
prepare and submit professional, high-quality and accurate reports; facilitate
the identification, analysis and assessment of risks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Aaqelah Haq Tel No: (021) 483 8318
POST 26/244 : CHIEF ANALYST DEVELOPER: ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: DOTP 81/2026
SALARY : R487 197- R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 3 years’ experience in software development and
analysis. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Information technology
systems; Technical standards/procedures; Managerial functions; Needs and
priorities of stakeholders; Service level agreements; National and Internal IT
policies and trends; Financial Management; Project Management. Skills
needed: Planning and organising; Full spectrum of development;
Communication (written and verbal); Good decision making.
DUTIES : Plans, organises and controls activities of staff responsible for the development
of program application and the analysis of systems; Ensure competency of
subordinates through training; Systems analysis: Develops functional and
technical specifications to meet the business needs of the client; Software
development: Constructs and implements application programs; Quality
control: Ensures technical and functional standards are observed; Prepares
system documentation including training manuals; Liaison with clients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E De Bruyn Tel No: (021) 483 6634.
POST 26/245 : CAPACITY BUILDING OFFICER: EDUCATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS
AND SPORTS REF NO: DOTP 82/2026
SALARY : R487 197- R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-degree (equivalent or higher) in
Human Resource Development (HRD)/ Education / Project Management. A
minimum of 3 years' relevant experience in Training or similar environment; A
valid Code B (or higher) driving licence. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of and working experience with the legislation,
regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the
line functions; Knowledge and understanding of information systems that aid
in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Knowledge and understanding of project management; Knowledge of
operational management practices; Mentoring and coaching practices;
National and provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to human
resources management, financial management and supply chain
management; Policies of the government of the day (national and provincial);
Provincial government functions and services; Statutory framework governing
the broad management of the public service; Staff performance management
system; disciplinary and grievance procedure; Knowledge of training and
learning methodologies. Skills: Data Analytics; Computer Literacy; Language
skills; Performance Management; Reporting; Information and Data
Management; Facilitation and Training; Strategic and performance Planning.
DUTIES : Project and activity management: Plan project activities and budgets, ensuring
technical and functional standards are observed; Coordinate project resources
to achieve timely delivery of milestones; Report on project progress and
manage contracts, including financial control of outsourced project: Training
and Development: Design, develop and update ICT learning material and
courses; Deliver training programmes and facilitate interventions by external
providers; Evaluate and assess the impact of training interventions for
continuous improvement and training and application skills in digital
technologies across basic skills, productivity tools, artificial intelligence across
various delivery modalities including a learning management system ;
169
Research: Analyse training needs and identify opportunities for digital and
alternative learning solutions; Research and recommend new ICT learning
methods, tools and approaches; Provide quality assurance of training
interventions and frontline support through helpdesk services; Course
management and support: Keep record of and analyse users’ particular needs,
from which further training courses, digital learning opportunities and FAQ
websites will be developed; Provide professional advice and assistance to
project leaders and managers in defining projects and creating project plans;
Perform financial control/certification of outsourced projects; Moderate quality
assessor training evaluation reports; Perform contract management for
outsourced projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ronwynne Rhoda Tel No: (021) 9007111
POST 26/246 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SERVICE CONDITIONS REF NO: DOTP 85/2026
SALARY : R487 197- R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B Degree or
higher) in Human Resources or related; a minimum of 3 years' relevant
experience. A valid Code B driving licence or higher. Competencies:
Knowledge of and working experience with the legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Knowledge and understanding of information systems that aid in the
management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function;
Knowledge and understanding of project management; Knowledge of
operational management practices; Knowledge and understanding of
procurement and tendering processes; Knowledge and understanding of policy
development, and operational management, monitoring and review processes;
Knowledge and understanding of modern systems of governance and
administration; Knowledge and understanding of public service procedures,
processes and systems; Knowledge and understanding of the regional and
local political, economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial
government of the Western Cape; Knowledge and understanding of
Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South
African public sector;·Knowledge and understanding of public finance, human
resources and discourse management processes; Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Finance Management Act, National and Provincial
Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives and
collective agreements; Knowledge and understanding of the functioning of the
province and the activities of sister departments/related functional areas;
Knowledge and understanding of the policies of the government of the day.
Knowledge and understanding of Labour Relations legislation and regulations;
Knowledge and understanding of performance management in general.
DUTIES : Implement and monitor the pension administration process; Implement and
monitor Service Conditions Compliance and Allowance Administration;
Implement Injury on Duty & Deductions processes; Coordinate Leave Audits,
Administrative Functions, Service Termination Benefits, and Incentive
Schemes; Coordinate the Processing of Leave Applications and the
Administration of Temporary Incapacity Leave; Managerial functions; People
management; Financial management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Lukhai Tel No: (021) 483 0836
POST 26/247 : PERFORMANCE PRACTITIONER: PERFORMANCE CONSULTING REF
NO: DOTP 84/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Information Technology or related; A Minimum of 3 years’
experience in network infrastructure management or information technology; A
valid (Code B or higher) driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Networks; ICT Infrastructure; Technical standards/ procedures;
Needs and priorities of stakeholders; Managerial functions; Service Level
Agreements; National & International IT policies and Trends; Financial
management; Project management; HR matters; Skills needed: Computer;
Planning and organising; Organising; Research; Creativity; Decision making;
Planning and co-ordination; Problem solving and Conflict management; Ability
170
to work independently and as part of a team; Communication skill (written and
verbal).
DUTIES : Plans, organises and controls activities of staff and contractors who are
responsible for the development of infrastructure; Quality control; Develop and
maintain network infrastructure; Prepares documentation including training
manuals; Liaison with client departments; Experience in Remote/Telephonic IT
support will be advantageous.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Jansen Tel No: (021) 483 2750
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 26/248 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NORMATIVE FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE (PFMA)
REF NO: PT 16/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree (equivalent or higher) in Finance or
Economics; Minimum of 3 years public sector finance experience and
understanding of PFMA and Treasury regulations. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Administrative procedures relating to financial legislation;
Norms and standards (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, National and Provincial
Treasury Directives and the financial governance environment, including the
internal audit framework; Verbal and written communications skills, including
report writing; Ability to think analytical and use data to acquire insights.
DUTIES : Research, develop and update financial governance norms and standards;
Monitor, evaluate and report on compliance with the Public Finance
Management Act; Maintain and implement the Financial Management Capacity
Maturity Model or other relevant governance monitoring; Maintain, rollout and
update the Governance Framework according to the need of the environment;
Annual analysis and evaluation of audit outcomes and submission of reports
to Cabinet and SCOPA; Support institutions with implementation of the
governance framework; Project Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Facoline Tel No: (021) 483 4388.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
171
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 26/249 : OFFICE MANAGER: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF DIRECTOR: SERVICE
DELIVERY MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION REF NO: DSD 56/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R537 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree) or
higher; A minimum of 3 years experience in rendering executive support
functions to top management. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Public Service reporting procedures; Modern systems of governance and
administration; Policies, regulations, internal arrangements and procedures;
SMS Manual; Financial Manual; Administrative and financial management;
Budget control and management; Procurement and tender administration;
Human resource management; All aspects pertaining to line functions within
the Department; Skills needed: Research; Analytical thinking; Financial
Management; Project Management; Managerial skills; Proven computer
literacy; Witten and verbal communication; Problem solving; Conflict
resolution.
DUTIES : Manage engagements: Ensure that the management support staff compiles
programmes; Render line administrative support services: Develop and
maintain systems in the office of the Chief Director’s Office that will contribute
towards improving efficiency in the office; Execute research, analyse
information and compile complex documents for the Chief Director: Conduct
research and compile comprehensive documents (not linked to a specific line
function) for the Chief Director with regard to issues forthcoming from
meetings; Provide Support to the Chief Director with regards to meetings;
Screen documents to determine actions/information/documents required for
the meeting; Manage resources of the of office of the Chief Director: Determine
and collate information with regards to the budget needs of the office of the
Chief Director; Remains up to date with regards to the applicable
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to his/her work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the Chief Director: Studies the relevant Public
Service and departmental prescripts/policies and other documents and ensure
that the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Van Reenen Tel No: (021) 483 9392
POST 26/250 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING REF NO: DSD
58/2026
SALARY : R413 001 - R486 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or
higher qualification) in finance; A minimum of 2 years’ experience in Financial
Management. Competencies: Proven Knowledge in the following: Public
Finance Management ACT (PFMA), National Treasury Regulations (NTR),
OPTI, Division of Revenue Act (DORA), department instructions and
delegations; Compilation of financial statements, Financial Management
Systems (FMS) and PERSAL; Cash flow procedures (monthly reporting on
revenue and expenditure); Budget process; Skills needed: analytical, problem-
solving, report writing, communication (written and verbal), proven computer
literacy (MS Office packages), and numerical and mathematical. Knowledge of
and working experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies
and best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Knowledge and
172
understanding of information systems that aid in the management of
knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Knowledge and
understanding of procurement and tendering processes; Knowledge and
understanding of policy development, and operational management,
monitoring and review processes; Knowledge and understanding of modern
systems of governance and administration; Knowledge and understanding of
public service procedures, processes and systems. Commented [KH1]: Please
add the relevant knowledge that the job holder is required to have. Knowledge
and understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements
governing the South African public sector; Knowledge and understanding of
public finance, human resources and discourse management processes;
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act,
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements; knowledge and
understanding of the functioning of the province and the activities of sister
departments/related functional areas. Knowledge and understanding of the
policies of the government of the day; Knowledge and understanding of
performance management system in general; Knowledge and understanding
of the national and Provincial Treasury Regulations; knowledge and
understanding of the Division of Revenue Act (DoRA); knowledge and
understanding of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP);
knowledge and understanding of the Basic Accounting System (BAS) and
PERSAL systems; knowledge and understanding of budget and MTEF
processes.
DUTIES : Provide budgeting and planning services; Provide budget monitoring and
reporting services; Implement and maintain financial management policies and
processes; Maintain financial Information and knowledge management;
Coordinate budget inputs from Head Office, SDA’s, Chief Directorates and
Facilities; Assist with the compilation of the Medium Term Expenditure:
Framework (MTEF) budget; Compile and manage Adjustments Budget
submissions; Capture and maintain approved budgets and adjustments on
BAS; Align departmental budgets with strategic plans, APPs and operational
plans; Perform costing of programmes, projects and policy initiatives; Analyse
affordability and funding availability.
ENQUIRIES : Jeanine Abercrombie Tel No: (021) 483 3927
POST 26/251 : SOCIAL WORKER ATLANTIS AND BERGRIVER SDA REF NO: DSD
57/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R338 206 - R397 668 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 2: R413 004 – R478 395 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 3: R496 668 - R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
Grade 4: R608 859 – R754 785 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification in social work (Bachelor of Social Work) that
allows professional registration with the South African Council for Social
Service Professions as a social worker: Registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions as a social worker, Grade 1: No
experience. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years' appropriate experience in Social
Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South African Council for
Social Service Professions; Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years' appropriate
experience in Social Work after registration as a Social Worker with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions; Grade 4: A minimum of 30 years
of appropriate experience in social work after registration as a social worker
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions; A valid Code B
driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Supervision
Framework for Social Workers; Human behaviour and social systems and skills
to intervene at the points where people interact with their environments in order
to promote social well-being; Social work theory and interventions; Information
and knowledge management, protocol and professional ethics, Relevant
legislation, policies, and prescripts (norms and standards); social dynamics,
work values, and principles; developing and empowering others. Skills in the
following: Challenge structural sources of poverty, inequality, oppression,
discrimination, and exclusion. Written and verbal communication, report
writing, self-management, motivation, Good planning and organizing, Problem-
solving and analytical Computer literacy, Presentation and facilitation, Client
orientation and customer focus; Ability and competence to assist, develop,
173
advocate for, and empower individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities to enhance their social functioning and their problem-solving
capabilities; Ability to promote, restore, maintain, advocate for and enhance the
functioning of individuals, families, groups and communities by enabling them
to accomplish tasks, prevent and alleviate distress and use resources
effectively; Understanding and ability to provide social work services towards
protecting people who are vulnerable, at risk and unable to protect themselves;
Ability to mentor and coach Social Workers Grade 1 Good communication
skills, Report-writing skills, Self-management skills; Motivation skills; Good
planning and organizing skills; Problem-solving and analytical skills; computer
literacy, presentation and facilitation, and client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Render a social work service about the care, support, protection, and
development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs (casework, group work, and community work).
Attend to any other matters that could result in, or stem from, social instability
in any form; Supervise and support social auxiliary workers' continuous
professional development. Keep up to date with new developments in the
social work and social welfare fields. Perform all the administrative functions
required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Koen Tel No: (021) 840 3500
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 17 August 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POST
POST 26/252 : PRINCIPAL PROVINCIAL INSPECTOR: LAW ENFORCEMENT
OPERATIONS REF NO: WCMD 93/2025 R1
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (equivalent or higher qualification); Must be in possession of a Basic
Traffic Diploma; A minimum of 6 years experience in the field; A valid code A
and EC driving licence; No Criminal record. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Operational functioning of the Directorate Traffic Law Enforcement;
National Road Traffic Act, 1996 (Act 93 of 1996); Road Traffic Amendment Act,
2008 (Act 64 of 2008); Firearms Control Act, 2000 (Act 60 of 2000); Criminal
Procedure Act, 1977 (Act 51 of 1977); Firearms Control Regulations, 2004;
National Road Traffic Regulations, 2000; Dimensional and Mass Limitations
and the Requirements for Abnormal Load Vehicles (TRH 11); Guidelines from
the Director of Public Prosecutions. Skills needed: Numeracy; Literacy;
Computer Literacy; Written and verbal communication; Project Management;
Accounting, Finance and Audit; Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis;
Legal Administration; Planning; Organising; Leadership; Monitoring; People
Management; Investigations; Motivational; Analytical; Operational/Project
Management; Negotiation; Interpretation; Legal Evidential; Ability to work
under pressure; Willingness to regularly travel away from the office.
174
DUTIES : Manage and enforce Road Traffic, Public Passenger, Transport Legislation and
other relevant legislations; Manage joint law enforcement activities and
projects (co-operative governance); Manage resources and provide leadership
and direction to all subordinates; Identify and manage risks; Manage the
performance of all administrative activities and related duties; Supervisory
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Mostert Tel No: (021) 483 0138/1
175