PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 11 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 27 MARCH 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS
EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE: kindly note that the following posts were advertised in
Public service Vacancy Circular 09 of 2026 dated 13 March 2026 with a closing date of
27 March 2026 Registry Clerk: Production (2x Posts): with reference no: REF NO:
SAAFCOL/02/08/26/02, are respectively have been withdrawn.
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT: Kindly note that the post of Principal
(Director-General) was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 10 dated 20 March
2026 with Ref No: NSG:10/2025. With the closing date of 17 March 2026. Please be
advised that applicants can also use a link to apply for the Principal (Director-General)
post: Application For Employment Principal (Director-General No: NSG 10/2025) Five
Year Contract. – Fill Out Form The closing date is extended to 17 April 2026.
ENQUIRIES: Ms Letty Raseroka Tel No: (012) 441 6626
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 17
BASIC EDUCATION B 18 - 19
CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICES C 20 - 24
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 25 - 31
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 32 - 36
HEALTH F 37 - 39
HOME AFFAIRS G 40 - 60
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE H 61 - 62
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DIRECTORATE I 63 - 70
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT J 71 - 72
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY K 73 - 85
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE L 86 - 92
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT M 93 - 95
SPORTS, ARTS AND CULTURE N 96 - 98
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION O 99 - 110
TRANSPORT P 111 - 112
TREASURY Q 113 - 115
WATER AND SANITATION R 116 - 135
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE S 136 - 144
GAUTENG T 145 - 146
KWAZULU NATAL U 147 - 157
MPUMALANGA V 158 - 163
NORTHERN CAPE W 164 - 166
WESTERN CAPE X 167 - 247
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications.
Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: FOOD SECURITY AND AGRARIAN
REFORM REF NO: 3/3/1/66/2025
Branch: Food Security And Agrarian Reform
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: (Pretoria)
3
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Honours / Postgraduate Diploma (NQF
8) in Agricultural Studies / Agricultural Economics. Eight (8) years’ experience
at a senior managerial level. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have
sound knowledge and understanding of the following: Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant legislation and regulations that govern the Public
Service including the Public Financial Management Act and Treasury
Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour Relations Act etc.
Understanding of the South African government imperatives, priorities and
sector requirements (especially with regards to capacity development, agrarian
reform and food security matters). Knowledge of Government policies and
priorities in terms of food security. Knowledge and understating of the food
security systems in the country. Knowledge and understanding of international
laws, agreements and commitments and their impact on food security.
Knowledge and understanding of the Southern African Development
Community, African Union and United Nations activities around matters related
to food security. Understanding of social development and poverty aspects
affecting the country. Understanding of health and nutrition matters.
Understanding of rural and small farmers issues and requirements. Knowledge
and understanding of the white paper on the transformation of the Public
Service (Batho Pele). Job Related Skills: Financial management. Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project management. Knowledge
management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
People management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity. Change management.
Extended working hours. Travel (Including international travel).
DUTIES : Provide national frameworks to promote sustainable household food security
programmes. Improve on the production systems of subsistence
producer/farmers in the agricultural sector to achieve food security and improve
livelihoods. Support the production systems of smallholder producers/farmers
in the agricultural sector to achieve food security and sustainable livelihoods.
Facilitate the provision of engineering services, inputs, implements &
infrastructure support. Oversee partnerships with other national and
international stakeholders involved in the food security initiatives. Develop and
provide strategic support to Land Reform beneficiaries. Develop norms and
standards to guide support on land reform and other land beneficiaries. Provide
Strategic support on land reform farms value chain. Coordinate land
development support on acquired land. Facilitate the provision of the
Department of Agriculture (DoA) education and Training in support of
sustainable growth and equitable participation in the sector. Facilitate and
support education and training skills in the Sector. Promote development of
centres of excellence on sector skills training. Develop, manage and coordinate
sector transformation policy and strategy in line with government objectives for
DoA. Provide national extension support services. Develop norms and
standards for extension and advisory services. Set norms and standards for all
service providers, extension officers (standard equipment and offices) level of
training and qualifications. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of norms
and standards in extension and advisory services. Coordinate the
implementation and monitoring of the national extension recovery plan in
consultation with Provincial Departments of Agriculture (PDA’s). Develop and
assess the effectiveness of various extension and advisory service delivery
methodologies or approaches relevant for the sector. Provide sound
development finance services for development of DoA programmes. Promote
the development of DoA financing programmes. Facilitate and manage sector
development funding. Facilitate the development of funding instruments. Prove
a national policy framework for development financing. Coordinate the
development of national policy and facilitate the implementation of financing
programmes. Facilitate the development finance initiatives within DoA. Provide
strategic direction and guidance with regards to the management of resources
within the Branch. Provide support to the Minister and Director-General (DG)
in relation to the development of solutions for challenges specific to the Branch,
to ensure delivery of the Branch related key result areas (including playing a
direct role regarding inputs into strategy, being accountable for relevant inputs
to parliamentary committee meetings, cluster meetings, implementation of the
sector plan, etc.). Articulate the Departmental Strategy consistent with the
Medium-Term Strategy Framework (MTSF) and relevant to the Branch’s
programmes and support the DG in leading the implementation thereof. Ensure
4
synchronization of the deliverables of the Department with those of the
Provincial Department of Agriculture and other government entities reporting
to the DoA. Develop Service Level Agreement with relevant State-Owned
Entities, consistent with the sector priorities. Lead the Branch in the
implementation of policy priorities and the realisation of the Branch’s strategic
objectives – including setting of targets. Mobilise and allocate resources in
accordance with the defined priorities. Monitor and evaluate the
implementation of projects and ensure appropriate progress tracking, analysis,
and reporting. Assume a central coordination role in relation to the functions of
the Branch with all stakeholders, including provincial coordination.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M K Kgang Tel: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DDGFSARrecruit66@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/02 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: NATURAL RESOURCES AND DISASTER
MANAGMENT (REF NO: 3/3/1/78/2025)
Branch: Agricultural Production, Biosecurity And Natural Resources
Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree OR Advance
Diploma in Agriculture (NQF 7). Five (5) years’ experience at a senior
managerial level. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have sound
knowledge and understanding of the following: knowledge and understanding
of International agricultural Trade, WTO-SPS import and Export regulatory
systems, WTO-TBT, CBD and other related agreements. Knowledge and
understanding of the white paper on the transformation of the public service
(Batho-Pele). Knowledge and understanding of all relevant legislation and
regulations that govern the Public Service including the Public Financial
Management Act and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour
Relations Act etc. knowledge and understanding of : Policies and legislative
framework applicable to the sector, Policies and legislative framework
applicable to Public Sector administration and Management, Strategies and
policies that govern natural Resource management, The sector and key
partners/stakeholders within the sector and the imperatives of government with
regards to land use and soil management. Job Related Skills: Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project management. Financial
management. Change management. Knowledge management. Service
Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis. People management and
Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication.
Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : Provide guidance in the development and revitalization of irrigation water
scheme and water use. Facilitate research on the development and
revitalization of irrigation water schemes and water use. Ensure the
development/review of policies and strategies on the development and
revitalization of irrigation water schemes and water use. Support the
implementation of policies and strategies on the development and revitalization
of irrigation water schemes and water use. Monitor the implementation of
relevant policies and strategies. Ensure the evaluation studies on the
development and revitalization of irrigation water schemes and water use are
conducted. Provide guidance and policy advice to management and key
stakeholders on the development and revitalization of irrigation water schemes
and water use. Approve and submit reports on the department’s efforts with
regards to the development and revitalization of irrigation water schemes and
water use. Ensure and monitor awareness building and education initiatives on
the development and revitalization of irrigation water schemes and water use.
participate in relevant national, regional, continental and international
structures. Facilitate Climate change mitigation and adaptation, risk and
disaster management. Facilitate research on climate change and adaptation,
risk and disaster management as it relates to agriculture. Ensure the
5
development/review of polices and strategies on climate change mitigation and
adaptation, risk and disaster management. Coordinate and support the
implementation of climate change programmes in support of risk and disaster
management and ensure sectoral compliance with the National Climate
Change Response Framework and regional and international obligations.
Ensure effective planning and implementation of an early warning system in
support of associated sector risk management. Monitor the implementation of
relevant policies and strategies. Provide strategic and policy advice to
management and key stakeholders on climate change mitigation and
adaptation, risk and disaster management. Prepare and submit reports on the
department’s efforts regarding climate change mitigation and adaptation, risk
and disaster and climate change mitigation and adaptation, risk and disaster
management. Participate in relevant national, regional, continental and
internationals structures. Promote, regulate and coordinate the sustainable use
of natural resources (land and soil). Facilitate research and sustainable use of
natural resources (land and soil). Ensure the development of policies and
strategies on sustainable use of natural resources (land and soil). Monitor the
implementation of relevant policies and strategies. Ensure the effective
management of the process of undertaking evaluation studies to determine the
extent to which policies and strategies implemented have had as sustainable
impact on the use of natural resources (land and soil). Support the process for
transferring land rights and ensuring that the process is sustainable. Provide
guidance and policy advice to management and key stakeholders on the
sustainable use of natural resources (land and soil). Issue directive in line with
legislation on the sustainable use of natural resources (land and soil). Manage
enforcement of legislation and directives with regards to the sustainable use of
natural resources (land and soil). Approve and submit reports on department’s
efforts with regards to the sustainable use of natural resources, land and soil.
Approve and submit reports to management and key stakeholders on land use
and soil management (trends and forecast). Approve and submit reports to the
World Trade Organization and other international organizations with regard to
support provided in respect of land use. Promote awareness building and
education initiatives on the sustainable use of natural resources (land and soil).
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Serage Tel: (012) 319 6471
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
CDNRDMrecruit78@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/03 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: COOPERATIVES DEVELOPMENT (REF NO
:3/3/1/67/2025)
Branch: Economic Development, Trade And Marketing: National Office
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree/Advanced National
Diploma in Social Sciences/ Economics (NQF 7). Five (5) years’ experience at
a senior managerial level. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant legislation and regulations that govern the Public
Service including the PFMA and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act,
the Labour Relations Act etc. Knowledge of the Government’s visions in terms
of the international forums and the intergovernmental Relations framework.
Knowledge of the Government’s policies and priorities for Agriculture.
Knowledge of the Department of Agriculture strategy and business plan.
Knowledge of the Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries sectors, the Economic
sector, Public Administration, supporting structures and programmes.
Understanding of international trade policy and regulations e.g. WTO etc.
Understanding of relevant regional and international conventions and
protocols. Understanding of the relevant legal principles. Understanding of
relevant Trade and International Relations operating procedures as prescribed
by relevant Departments. Knowledge and understanding of the white paper on
the transformation of the public service (Batho Pele) Job Related Skills:
Financial Management. Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and
6
Project Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Problem Solving and Analysis. People Management and Empowerment. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity.
Change Management. Extended working hours. Traveling
DUTIES : Oversee the development of policies, strategies and programmes with regards
to Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment within the sector and
implementation thereof. Ensure the development of BBBEE charters, norms,
and standards. Ensure the effective communication of policies, strategies and
programmes and the implications for key stakeholders. Ensure analysis and
report on BBBEE compliance in the sector. Ensure synergies with the relevant
Departments to monitor and report on non-compliance to the sector Code.
Ensure the review of implementation challenges experienced by businesses in
the sector; and develop appropriate responses to those challenges. Oversee
the provision of support to the charter councils. Ensure status reports on
BBBEE compliance in the sector. Oversee the development of policies,
strategies, and programmes to support co-operative development and
implementation thereof. Ensure the development of operational guidelines for
implementation of policies, strategies and programmes. Ensure development
of supporting communication plans and operational manuals for the
implementation of policies and strategies. Ensure implementation of the
agricultural cooperative development policies, strategies, and programmes.
Ensure that relevant institutional arrangements are in place for the
implementation of policies, strategies and programmes. Ensure monitoring,
evaluation and reporting on progress made on various programmes. Ensure
Cooperative education and skills training to enhance performance and
efficiencies. Oversee the development of policies, strategies and programmes
to support enterprise development and implementation thereof. Ensure
coordination of sector small businesses readiness to enhance market access.
Ensure support sector small businesses in acquiring information on research
methodologies and technologies. Ensure coordination of entrepreneurial
development from SMMEs in the sector. Ensure the management of small
business education and skills training to enhance internal business
performance and efficiencies. Oversee implementation of programmes and
resources to increase participation of agribusinesses and SMMEs within the
sector the in mainstream economy. Ensure the efficient and effective
implementation of allocated resources for the advancement of Small and
measured entities in the Sector. Ensure governance structures for the
management of resources are in place. Ensure agreements between the
Department and Partners are in place. Ensure marketing and promotion to
improve uptake. Ensure monitoring and evaluation pre and post
implementation of projects. Ensure impact assessment on approved and
implemented projects. Ensure promotion and coordination of entrepreneurial
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M K Kgang Tel: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
CDCDrecruit67@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/04 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION (REF
NO: 3/3/1/68/2025)
Branch: Office Of The Director-General
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree OR Advance
Diploma in Development Studies/Social Sciences/Public Administration (NQF
L7). Five (5) years’ experience at a senior managerial level in Monitoring and
evaluation. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge and
understanding of monitoring and evaluation frameworks including the
Government wide monitoring and evaluation system. Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant legislations that are applicable to the Department
and the sector. Job Related Skills: Interpersonal and presentation skills.
7
Communication skills (Verbal and written). Negotiation and advocacy skills.
Interpretation skills. Project Management skills. Strategic Capability and
leadership skills. Diplomatic. Report writing skills. Investigation skills.
Computer Literacy. A Valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Oversee the development and maintenance of an integrated monitoring and
evaluation system. Develop/review the Department’s framework for monitoring
and evaluating the performance of the Department and relevant State-Owned
Entities (SOEs), the framework may include policy, strategy, processes, tools
etc. Oversee the development/review of the Department’s systems for
managing data and information as well as reporting. Oversee the development
of a framework for assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of the monitoring
and evaluation system. Oversee the conducting of periodic assessments to
determine the effectiveness and efficiency of the monitoring and evaluation
system. Facilitate the development of capacity to implement and manage the
monitoring and evaluation system. Oversee the development/review detailed
guidelines for implementing the Department’s monitoring and evaluation
system. Oversee the development/review processes for managing the quality
of monitoring and evaluation data, information and reports. Monitor and report
on the performance of the Department in line with strategic plans, annual
performance plans and operational plans. Drive operational excellence and
governance of the department. Develop and maintain performance monitoring
tools and frameworks. Coordinate and compile institutional performance and
strategic reports. Compile and consolidate inputs into the Departmental annual
report. Conduct evaluation assessments related to the programmes of the
Department. Develop and maintain evaluation frameworks. Perform evaluation
of strategic projects and programmes according to the departmental evaluation
plan. Analyse and interpret evaluation data. Facilitate development of sectoral
evaluations plan. Manage monitoring and evaluation functions and provide
technical support to provincial departments and public entities. Oversee the
processes of monitoring and reporting between DoA, the Provincial
Departments of Agriculture (PDA) and public entities. Facilitate and coordinate
capacity building on M& E matters. Facilitate and coordinate planning,
monitoring and evaluation of working groups. Provide strategic guidance and
support on the development and review of performance indicators. Facilitate
and coordinate monitoring of strategic projects performance and results.
Create capacity to monitor and evaluate performance. Facilitate the provision
of training with regards to monitoring and evaluation. Formulate and manage
strategic partnerships to enhance the capacity of the Department to monitor
and evaluate its performance. Establish and lead forums/ structures aimed at
enhancing monitoring and evaluation practices within the Department.
Participate in national, regional and international forums and structures aimed
at enhancing monitoring and evaluation practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M K Kgang Tel: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DPMErecruit68@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/05 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND TRADE: (REF NO:
3/3/1/69/2025)
Branch: Economic Development, Trade And Marketing
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) Agricultural
Economics. 5 years’ experience at a senior managerial level. Job Related
Knowledge: Applicants must have sound knowledge and understanding of the
following: Knowledge and understanding of all relevant legislation and
regulations that govern the Public Service including the Public Financial
Management Act and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour
Relations Act etc. Knowledge of the Government’s vision in terms of the
international forums and the Intergovernmental Relations framework.
Knowledge of the Government’s policies and priorities for Agriculture, Forestry
8
and Fisheries. Knowledge of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries strategy and business plan. Understanding of international trade
policy and regulations e.g. WTO etc. Understanding of relevant regional and
international conventions and protocols. Understanding of the relevant legal
principles. Understanding of relevant Trade and International Relations
operating procedures as prescribed by relevant Departments. Knowledge and
understanding of the white paper on the transformation of the Public Service
(Batho Pele). Job Related Skills: Financial management. Strategic Capability
and Leadership. Programme and Project management. Knowledge
management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
People management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity. Change management.
Extended working hours. Travel (Including international travel).
DUTIES : Promote market access and fair trade in international markets. Facilitate the
support in the development of international trade (bilateral and multilateral)
strategies related to agriculture. Ensure that provision of support to the head
of the branch and the chief directorate in the implementation of international
trade (bilateral and multilateral) policies and agreements relate to agriculture.
Facilitate the provision of trade intelligence and interpretation of economic data
on the agriculture sector regularly as part of the support. Facilitate support in
the implementation of trade instruments as negotiated and agreed upon.
Facilitate the dissemination of trade information to industry stakeholders.
Facilitate support to the head of the branch in the various international fora.
Coordiante and support bilateral and multilateral relations. Facilitate advice on
international trade policy instruments such as tariffs, subsidies, and quotas.
Facilitate the establishment of sound development cooperation on bilateral
trade in a specific country or region. Monitor and evaluate African events and
developments that impact the agriculture sector. Facilitate timeous support in
the drafting of documents, in the form. Of briefing documents, monthly,
quarterly annual reports etc., for the attention of the head of the branch.
Promote relations and partnerships with internaational organisations in liasion
with the Branch head. Coordinate and support engagements with multilateral
organisations to advance the agricultural sector. Render managment suppport
services. Facilitate the implementation of international trade policies in
relations to the African continent and the rest of the world. Coordinate and
support relations with international governments, organisations and forums.
Oversee the management of the resources of the Chief Directorate. Interpret
the Branch’s business strategy, with special reference to how priority projects
should be resourced and delivered with guidance from the executive of the
branch. Lead the Chief Directorate in relation to the implementation of the
approved strategic and annual performance plans. Manage the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Chief Directorate, to ensure the achievement of set targets
of the Directorates, while reporting on value for money in this regard. Develop
systems and procedures to enable delivery of services by the Directorates.
Define processes required for the delivery of services by the Directorates.
Define processes required for the delivery of set targets. Take responsibility for
coordination an communication in relation to the functions of the Chief
Directorate. Create an enabling environment, including ensuring solicitation of
resources as needed in support of the Directorates, for achievement of their
targeted plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M K Kgang Tel: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
CDIRTrecruit69@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/06 : DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL TRADE PROMOTIONS (REF NO:
3/3/1/70/2025)
Directorate: International Trade Promotions
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) Agricultural
9
Economics. 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial level in
Agricultural economics/Agricultural trade/ International trade. Job Related
Knowledge: Applicants must have sound knowledge and understanding of the
following: Knowledge and understanding of all relevant legislation and
regulations that govern the Public Service including the Public Financial
Management Act and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour
Relations Act etc. Knowledge of the Government policies and priorities in terms
of Agriculture. Understanding of the Government’s international relations policy
framework. Understanding of Government’s vision in terms of international
forum and the Intergovernmental Relations framework. Knowledge and
understanding of the Agricultural sector, Public Administration, various
structures and programmes (SADC, NEPAD, AU, UN). Understanding of
relevant regional conventions and protocols. Understanding of diplomatic
protocol. Knowledge and understanding of the white paper on the
transformation of the public service (Batho Pele). Job Related Skills: Financial
management. Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project
management. Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. People management and Empowerment. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity.
Change management. Extended working hours. Travel (Including international
travel).
DUTIES : Manage economic research and provide regular policy briefs to management.
Conduct research on economic issues and disseminate research findings
through technical reports and briefing documents. Compile, analyze and report
data to explain economic phenomena and forecast market trends. Formulate
recommendations, policies or plans to guide DoA intervensions. Monitor
international trends on agricultural commodity markets and provide briefs to
management. Manage the development of international relations and trade
(bilateral and multilateral) policies related to agriculture. Manage the analysis
and development of policies and advice bilateral trade. Manage the analysis
and development of policies and advice multilateral trade. Provide inputs with
regards to the signing of trade agreements. Provide the necessary
documentation for stakeholder consultations. Manage the implementation of
international trade (bilateral and multilateral) policies and agreements related
to structure. Implement obligations in terms of trade agreements. Monitor the
implementation of trade agreements by the Department. Failitate, co-ordinate
and support the implementation of international trade agreements and policies.
Monitor the implementation of trade policy and trade obligations by other
trading partners. Facilitate, coordinate and guide the support of international
relations with governments, organisations and forums in the Americas,
Australasia, Europe and Middle East. Facilitate, co-ordinate and guide the
sector participation in multilateral forums and Rome based agencies. Manage,
undertake and support trade negotiations,in order to improve international
access and contribute towards fair trade rules. Manage the preparations of
policy discussion documents to inform South African’s international trade in
agriculture (including cross cutting e.g non-tariff barries). Manage the
preparation of negotiating positions for the relevant bilateral and multilateral
trade negotiations. Co-ordinate and manage research that forms the basis for
negotiation of treaties. Undertake, manage and support trade negotiations
regarding agriculture. Represent the Department in international trade fora.
Undertake and manage support negotiation of bilateral agreements. Manage
the provision of trade intelligence to the agriculture sector. Provide input with
regards to the development of expo and import policies and regulations.
Manage the preparation of and collaborate with the DTI in compiling economic
impact assessments of international trade policies on procedures, exporters
and consumers. Co-ordinated and manage research into foreign trade policies
and best practice. Provide advice and recommendations on research
outcomes. Manage, co-ordinated and guide international and multilateral
relations with governments, organisations and forums in the UN Americas,
Australasia, Europe and Middle East. Manage, negotiate and implement the
bilateral Agreements with South-South and North-South regions. Manage,
negotiate and implement Multilateral agreements relating to agriculture, land
reform and rural development. Manage the participation of the department in
the Official Development Assistance Programme and implementation of global
norms and standards by International Organisations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M K Kgang Tel: (012) 319 7331
10
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DITPrecruit70@nda.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/07 : DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT (REF
NO: 3/3/1/71/2025)
Branch: Office of the Director General
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced
Diploma in Public Management/ Public Administration/ Business Administration
(NQF 7). Five (5) years of experience in middle or senior managerial level at
administration environment. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of the public
service systems and legislation governing public service delivery. Good
governance and Batho Pele Principles. Internal performance evaluation and
reporting. Government decision making processes. Diversity Management.
Performance Management and Monitoring. Public Service Regulations.
Government systems and structure. Public Finance Management Act. National
Treasury Regulations. Job Related Skills: Computer literacy skills.
Communication skills. Report writing skills. Financial Management skills.
Project Management skills. Organising and planning skills. Document
management skills. Working under pressure. Meeting deadlines. Teamwork. A
Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop frameworks, procedures, and policy. Develop the policy and ensure
that it is being implemented by staff at all times. Monitor the implementation
and adherence of the PFMA, DPSA Directives, Archives and National Treasury
Regulations. Monitor the provision of financial administrative support services.
Manage financial and administrative services. Manage supply chain
management services. Manage general administration functions. Manage and
supervise the overall functioning of Community liaison and Enquiry
Management in the office of the Director-General. Manage the flow of the
queries from the office of the Director-General and Ministry. Manage and
supervise the overall functioning of documentation in the Office of the Director-
General. Manage documents flowing in and out of the office of the Director-
General. Monitor instructions emanating from documents. Attend to classified
documents according to the security standards. Compile submission reports
as required. Monitor the provision of administrative support services.
Consolidate management Information frequently. Monitor that all training
activities are communicated to Human Resource Development. Verify that
procurement procedures are followed at all times. Ensure that the activities of
the Chief Directorate are coordinated daily. Ensure that there is compliance
with the prescripts as contemplated with the PFMA at all times. Manage the
performance of officers reporting to him or her and compile performance
contracts continuously. Compile reports and statistics on a monthly basis.
Manage and supervise Asset management of the Department. Ensure control
and management of assets of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Stevens Tel: 060 973 1630
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DADMrecruit71@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/08 : DIRECTOR: AGRO PROCESSING SUPPORT (REF NO: 3/3/1/72/2025)
Branch: Economic Development, Trade And Marketing
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: (Pretoria)
11
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Degree in Agricultural Economics
(NQF 7). Five (5) years of relevant experience at middle / senior management
level in Agricultural Economics / Agro – processing. Job Related Knowledge:
Knowledge and understanding of all relevant legislation and regulations that
govern the Public Service including the Public Financial Management Act and
Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour Relations Act etc.
Understanding of the South African government imperatives, priorities and
sector requirements (especially with regards to capacity development, agrarian
reform and food security matters). Knowledge of Government policies and
priorities in terms of food security. Knowledge and understating of the food
security systems in the country. Knowledge and understanding of international
laws, agreements and commitments and their impact on food security.
Knowledge and understanding of the Southern African Development
Community, African Union and United Nations activities around matters related
to food security. Understanding of social development and poverty aspects
affecting the country. Understanding of health and nutrition matters.
Understanding of rural and small farmers issues and requirements. Knowledge
and understanding of the white paper on the transformation of the Public
Service (Batho Pele). Job Related Skills: Financial management. Strategic
Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project management. Knowledge
management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
People management and Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity. Change management.
Extended working hours. Travel.
DUTIES : Develop an integrated agro-processing strategic framework for South Africa.
Liaise with the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) to develop an integrated
agro-processing strategy for South Africa. Develop integrated agro-processing
support and implementation plans focusing on the following: Facilitate the
establishment of dry and cold storage infrastructure. Provision of processing
skills. Provision of post-harvest management and processing technologies and
facilitate access to finance. Develop profiles for the agro-processing sub-
sectors. Facilitate the establishment of small and medium scale processing
facilities in areas near points of production. Develop, manage and maintain
systems for identifying the needs of and supporting small and medium scale
agro-processing enterprises. Provide strategic and policy advice to relevant
stakeholders to ensure the development of small and medium scale agro-
processing enterprises. Participate in relevant forums and structures to
contribute towards the development of an integrated framework for supporting
small and medium scale agro-processing enterprises. Facilitate and manage
the provision of direct support to small and medium scale agro-processing
enterprises. Establish agro-processing support units within DOA to promote the
growth and development of agro-processing industries in South Africa.
Develop customized support measures to support processing in DOA sectors.
Monitor, evaluate and report on relevant support programmes and strategies.
Facilitate the formation of strategic partnerships with established industry
players to support small and medium scale agro-processing enterprises.
Facilitate the development of procurement contracts between established and
developing agro-processing industries. Manage the implementation of sector
transformation charters to promote the development of small, and medium
scale agro-processing enterprises. Facilitate the provision of direct support to
small and medium scale enterprises through strategic partnerships and ensure
appropriate funding mechanisms. Manage the development and
implementation of information systems to support agro processing. Manage
the provision of information to support agro processing. Facilitate the attraction
of domestic and foreign direct investments into the agro-processing sector.
Ensure the implementation of the legislative framework and strategies aimed
at improving agro processing. Collaborate with the DTI and other relevant
stakeholders in enforcing and implementing legislation and national policies.
Manage the development and implementation of systems to monitor the
implementation of legislation and national policies. Manage the provision of
direct support to Provincial Departments of Agriculture and other sector role
players with regards to the implementation of legislation, policies and
strategies. Manage engagements with sector role players to ensure
implementation of legislation and national policies. Monitor, evaluate and report
on the implementation of relevant legislation and national policies within the
sector.
12
ENQUIRIES : Ms M K Kgang Tel: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DAPSrecruit72@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/09 : DIRECTOR: AGRICULTURE INPUTS CONTROL REF NO: 3/3/1/73/2025)
Branch: Agricultural Production, Biosecurity, Natural resources Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced
Diploma (NQF 7) in Agriculture. Compulsory registration with South African
Council for Scientific Professions as a professional Natural Scientist. Five (5)
years’ experience at middle management or senior management level. Job
Related Knowledge: Applicants must have sound knowledge and
understanding of the following: all relevant legislation and regulations that
govern the Public Service including the Public Financial Management Act and
Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act, the Labour Relations Act, etc.
Extensive knowledge of Fertilizers, farm Feeds, Agricultural Remedies and
Stock Remedies Act no. 36 of 1947. Knowledge of applicable international
guidelines and agreements. Knowledge of API’s scientific principles, research
and product development processes. Knowledge and understanding of the
international activities related to registration of agricultural inputs. Knowledge
and understanding of government priorities and imperatives. Knowledge and
understanding of the white paper on the transformation of the Public Service
(Batho Pele). Job Related Skills: Financial management. Change
management. Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. People management and Empowerment. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity.
Change management. Extended working hours. Travel (Including international
travel).
DUTIES : Manage the development and effective administration of fertilizers, Farm feeds,
Agricultural Remedies act (Act No. 36 of 1947) and its regulations. Develop,
policy, strategies and legislation related to agricultural inputs. Develop/Compile
guidelines, standards (specifications) a production inputs as well as Pest
Control Operators and Sterilizing Plants. Ensure that there is continuously
review of legislations, regulations, and standards. Ensure that registrations
standards comply with international norms and standards. Ensure and monitor
compliance to the requirements of the Act, and the regulations promulgated
there under. Provide regulatory interpretations and technical advice to relevant
stakeholders. Manage the setting of tariffs and collection of revenue in terms
of the Act. Ensure that there effective administration processes for registration
of agricultural production inputs (agricultural remedies, farm seeds, stock
remedies and fertilizers), Pest control and sterilizing plants. Ensure that there
is an effective regulatory systems, registration, process, and enforcement.
Manage scientific data analysis and provide scientific support and advice.
Ensure the interpretation of scientific and product development reports.
Manage the rendering of a professional, cost effective, and efficient legislative
service. Design and develop appropriate scientific guidelines for generation of
scientific for generation of scientific data for registration purpose. Conduct risk
assessment on the products to determine their efficiency, suitability, and safety.
Manage and monitor the efficiency of scientific evaluations to ensure that the
Department makes sound scientific based registration decisions. Mange the
registration process of agricultural production inputs products. Develop and
maintain relationships/ partnerships with the relevant stakeholders. Prove
leadership and direction in the establishment and strengthening of appropriate
forums. Ensure cooperation and collaboration with other government
departments, NGO’s public and ago-chemical industry on science related
matters. Develop necessary networks to maintain and manage stakeholders’
participation. Provide and advice to the industry and stakeholders. Participate
and represent the department in relevant national, regional, and international
forums to ensure that the country’s framework influences and stays at the
13
international best practices. Manage the operational plan for the Directorate
and ensure its implementation. Allocate and manage resources at functional
levels to ensure the delivery on set targets for the Directorate. Develop
solutions to technical challenges. Conduct financial planning and account for
allocated budget. Ensure adherence to policy and statutory directives relevant
to the functional terrain of the Directorate. Monitor, evaluate, and report on the
performance of the Directorate. Manage client relation. Ensure the
management and development of human resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mudzunga Tel: (012) 319 6502
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DAICrecruit73@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/10 : DIRECTOR: SPECIAL PROJECTS COORDINATOR (REF NO:
3/3/1/74/2025)
Office Of The Chief Information Officer
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced
Diploma in Computer Science/ Information Technology (NQF 7). Five (5) years’
experience at middle or senior managerial level. Job Related Knowledge:
Knowledge of project management, budgetary planning, expenditure reporting
monitoring and evaluation, infrastructure planning and implementation, human
resource management. Knowledge of software tools for project management
preferred. Job Related Skills: Communication Skills. Presentation Skills.
Financial Management. Conflict Management. Problem Solving. Project
Management. MS Project Office. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordinate all strategic reports for the OCIO. Consolidate all inputs from all
directorates in the OCIO and compile all Reports on time in compliance with
good governance requirement: (a) Monthly Branch Management Reports, (b)
Quarterly Performance Reports, (c) Risk Management Reports, (d) Audit
Committee Reports. Develop the Risk Register for the OCIO. Strategic Risk.
Operational Risk. Develop an internal network of ICT and KIIM sponsors
across the Department. Lead Branch engagements on ICT and KIIM projects
working together with Branch Relationship Managers and Business Analysts
on a regular basis to assess requirements. Facilitate the development of
project plans illustrating resource requirements (budget and allocated ICT/KIIM
technicians). Analyse and define the Return on Investment (RoI) on
implemented projects of ICT and KIIM. Identify new and trending technologies
to inform and for consideration into the Departmental ICT and KIIM strategy
and identify external partners for digital collaborations. Research new
technologies for ICT and KIIM that would be relevant to DoA and that would
save costs and enhance efficiencies. Identify external partners for digital
collaborations: Cluster level departments, SOEs, External Collaborations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P T Sehoole Tel: (012) 319 6527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DSPCrecruit74@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/11 : DIRECTOR: ICT SERVICE DELIVERY AND OPERATION (REF NO:
3/3/1/75/2025)
Office Of The Chief Information Officer
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced
14
Diploma in Computer Science/ Information Technology (NQF 7). Five (5) years’
experience at middle or senior managerial level. Job Related Knowledge: The
PFMA and regulations, and other relevant legislation – e.g. the National
Strategic Intelligence Act; the National Archives of South Africa Act; the
Promotion of Access to information Act; the Public Service Act. The Department
and its core objectives and functions. Public service, strategies and goals.
Knowledge of ITIL and Cob-it frameworks. IT operating systems and technical
knowledge. Data Management. Information Management. The development of
IT strategies. The e-government policy framework. The GITO strategy,
standards, norms, regulations and policies. Minimum information security
standards (MISS). Good corporate governance principles. Government
priorities and imperatives. The White paper on the transformation of the public
service (Batho Pele). Job Related Skills: Strategic Capability and Leadership.
Programme and Project Management. Financial Management. Change
Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. People Management and Empowerment. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity. Valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Manage ICT network and telecommunications services. Implement, manage
and maintain all ICT network Infrastructure. Implement, manage and maintain
telecommunication infrastructure. Implement, manage and maintain the Wide
Area Network (WAN). Manage ICT Operations, Infrastructure and Exchange
services. Implement, manage and maintain server room infrastructure. Ensure
continuous ICT Service Improvement. Implement, manage and maintain ICT
services. Implement, manage and maintain exchange services. Manage ICT
Cyber Security services. Implement, manage and maintain all ICT security
Infrastructure. Implement Cyber Security Awareness in DoA. Manage ICT
Internal Disaster Recovery and ICT Resilience. Implement, manage and
maintain ICT Service Continuity. Test the internal ICT DRP at least once a year.
Provide leadership, direction, advice and support. Ensure the development of
financial management strategic objectives. Assist the Chief Financial Officer in
discharging his/her responsibilities. Advise senior management on financial
matters and financial consequences of draft policies including strategic
planning issues. Ensure the provision of timely and accurate financial and
operational information necessary for strategic decision-making. Liaise with the
relevant role-players in the financial environment regarding transversal
financial matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P T Sehoole Tel: (012) 319 6527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DISDOecruit75@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/12 : ICT PROFESSIONAL (REF NO: 3/3/1/76/2025)
Office of the Chief Information Officer
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Bachelor’s Degree or Advanced
Diploma (NQF 7) in Information Technology/ Computer Science. 5 years’
experience at middle/senior managerial level. Job Related Knowledge:
Applicants must have sound knowledge and understanding of the following:
The PFMA and regulations and other relevant legislation .e.g., the National
Strategic Intelligence Act, the National Archives of South Africa Act, the
promotion of Access to Information Act, the Public Service Act. The Department
and its core objectives and functions. Public service, strategies and goals.
Knowledge of ITIL and Cob-it frameworks. IT operating systems and technical
knowledge. Data Management. Information Management. The development of
IT strategies. The development of IT strategies. The e-government policy
framework. The GITO strategy, standards, norms, regulations and policies.
Minimum information security standards (MISS). Good corporate governance
principles. Government priorities and imperatives. The White paper on the
transformation of the public service (Batho Pele). Job Related Skills: Strategic
15
Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project Management. Financial
Management. Change Management. Knowledge Management. Service
Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis. People Management and
Empowerment. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication.
Honesty and Integrity. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Identify, plan, co-ordinate, control and implement various projects to support
the dissemination of information. Disseminate data. Disseminate information.
Disseminate decision support systems. Disseminate knowledge-based
systems/ expert systems. Anticipate/ identify gaps that need to be addressed
before it becomes a need from a line functionary and provide the data or
infrastructure to enable their service delivery. Provide advice and guidance by
remaining relevant in terms of IT and the business environment, through
continuous research and development. Attend ICT technical meetings,
operational meetings, provide inputs and advice on incidents, projects,
systems tenders, undertake work emanating from meetings, evaluate and
monitor implementation of changes, BTORs or reports. Participate in and
provide inputs/guidance and support of activities in DoA, government, the
sector and or organisations efforts in collaborating with DoA. Remain current
in terms of the IT and business environment. Identify and evaluate new
technologies, systems and processes and releases that potentially will benefit
the department and the agricultural sector. Serve on and represent the NDA on
identified Boards, Commissions, Inter-Departmental/ Provincial and Intra-
Departmental Committees. Prepare strategic and operational plans for
identified projects. Establish and determine what standards and norms are
used in the industry and modify/apply them to assist the department in its
objectives. Analyse policies and strategies nd provide inputs to ensure optimal
utilisation of resources to the benefit of the department. Provide guidance and
support for policies and activities in the Information Technology environment.
Support Import-Export System (IESODA) initiatives. Participate in work groups,
undertake work required and or arrange/ facilitate/ attend meeting, write
BTORs reports, emails. Engage in strategic surveillance and evaluation
continually. Support Food Security/ APAP/RAAVC/Agri-hubs/IMC land
redistribution in assisting to gather information, plans, process and map
information form role-players. Participate in work groups, undertake work
required and or arrange, facilitate, attend meetings, write BTORs, reports,
emails and facilitate provision of maps/advice. Work with relevant role players
in collecting, collating,processing,disseminating information on commodities,
logistics, models and programmes related to spacial planning. Support the
allocation of adequate funds, personnel and other resources form Government
and the donor community to execute the core responsibilties/targets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P T Sehoole Tel: (012) 319 6527
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ICTPecruit76@nda.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
POST 11/13 : DIRECTOR: AFRICA RELATIONS PROMOTIONS (REF NO: 3/3/1/77/2025)
Branch: Economic Development, Trade And Marketing
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive package) The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful completion of Pre-entry Certificate for SMS as endorsed by the
National School of Government (NSG). Degree in Agricultural Economics
and/or Economics (NQF 7). 5 years’ experience at middle/senior managerial
level. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have sound knowledge and
understanding of the following: Knowledge and understanding of all relevant
legislation and regulations that govern the Public Service including the Public
Financial Management Act and Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Act,
the Labour Relations Act etc. Knowledge. Job Related Skills: Financial
Management. Strategic Capability and Leadership. Programme and Project
Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. People Management and Empowerment. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Honesty and Integrity.
16
Change Management. Good Teamwork. Extended working hours. Travel
(including international travel).
DUTIES : Facilitate the negotiations of bilateral and multilateral technical co-operation
agreements and treaties. Plan co-ordinate the Departments participation in
relevant engagements in Africa. Plan and co-ordinate Departmental
presentation in bilateral engagements and multilateral structures. Coordinate
and arrange discussions, meetings and gather inputs for agendas for all
engagements. Participate in negotiations and discussions to ensure the
achievement of consensus in bilateral and multilateral structures. Facilitate and
coordinate the signing and implementation of international agreements and/or
Memorandums and Understanding (MOUs). Coordinate the implantation of bi-
national action plans and/or agreements and ensure effective monitoring and
reporting. Coordinate and manage partnerships with African Governments.
Promote partnerships with African Governments. Establish and maintain
relationships through representation and liaison with other countries.
Coordinate and facilitate exchanges on agreements and programmes. Update
the database on relevant multilateral organisations dealing with agriculture and
rural development. Manage the provision of technical, advisory and
administrative support services with regards to bilateral and multilateral
relations. Identify and manage of partner countries needs in terms of key issues
relating to foreign policies and protocols. Provide guidance in the development
and implementation of policy regulations. Coordinate and provide support
services related to briefing documents and protocol services. Present monthly,
quarterly and annual reports on the departments bilateral and multilateral
engagements in the African Continent. Coordinate Ministerial meetings and Bi-
National Commissions. Develop and implement a policy regarding the placing
of foreign representatives and management of foreign offices. Manage the
provision of multilateral and bilateral relations intelligence to the agricultural
and rural development sector. Identify key cooperation issues, develop and
coordinate briefing notes on promoting such bilateral and multilateral
cooperation. Monitor and evaluate African events and developments which
impact on agriculture. Analyse and monitor foreign policy trends. Coordinate
and gather technical information bilateral and/or multilateral for departmental
engagements. Collaborate with researchers in collating country profiles and
conducting feasibility studies. Know and apply legislation, policies and
procedures. The Constitution. Government decision making processes.
Internal performance evaluation and reporting. Good governance and Batho
Pele Principles. Diversity Management. Labour and Employment Legislation.
Public Service Regulations. government systems and structures. Performance
Management and Monitoring. Public Service Transformation. Public Finance
Management Act. National Treasury Regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M K Kgang Tel: (012) 319 7331
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DARPrecruit77@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2025
17
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF BASIC EDUCATION
The Department of Basic Education is committed to providing equal opportunities and practicing
affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote equity through the filling of all numeric
targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate this process successfully, an indication
of race, gender and disability status is required. Preference will be given to underrepresented groups as
per the DBE Employment Equity Targets. Women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Submitted via post to: Private Bag X895, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-deliver to: The
Department of Basic Education, 222 Struben Street, Pretoria or you can email
your application at Recruitment@dbe.gov.za. Please visit the Department of
Education’s website at www.education.gov.za or the Department of Public
Service and Administration vacancy circulars at www.dpsa.gov.za.
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Mahape/Ms N Kumalo
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the most recently approved Z83 Application
for Employment Form, obtainable from the DBE Website or any Public Service
Department/Webpage. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
The Z83 must be completed in full and page 2 duly signed. A clear indication
of the post and reference number that is being applied for must be indicated
on your Z.83. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 with a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. (Only). Certified copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates on or before
the day of the interview. Successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks,
qualification and employment verification including social media profiles).
Appointment is subject to positive results of the security clearance process.
The successful candidate will be required to sign an annual performance
agreement and, where applicable, annually disclose his/her financial interests.
All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict of
interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
requirements will not be considered. Applications received after the closing
date or faxed applications will not be considered. Note: A Certificate for SMS
pre-entry programme is required for all SMS appointments, the full details of
the outlined requirements and course information can be sourced by following
the link https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry programme.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the interview and
the technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend
a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA
Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
incumbent will have to sign an annual performance agreement as well as
annually disclose his/her financial interests and be subjected to a security
clearance.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/14 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: EDUCATION HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
REF: DBE/25/2026
Branch: Teachers, Education Human Resources and Institutional
Development
Chief Directorate: Education Human Resources Management
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : The applicants must be in a possession of a Bachelor’s degree or
undergraduate qualification in the Education or Social Science (NQF Level 7)
or equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA; A post bachelor’s degree
will be an added advantage; At least 5 years’ experience at a senior managerial
level; Experience in Education Planning, Education Human Resources or
18
Education Labour Relations, which is supported by extensive knowledge of and
experience in the education sector and training system planning, Policy funding
and implementation in Education Human Resources System, Human
Resource policy and Condition of Services Development; Understanding
processes regarding Human Resources and in provincial education
departments; Strong writing and communication skills as well as computer
skills; Managing a team of people; A postgraduate qualification in the fields
mentioned above will be an added advantage. Core Competencies: Strategic
Capacity and Leadership; People management and Empowerment; Financial
Management and Change Management. The candidate must be confident,
trustworthy, accurate, adaptable and diplomatic.
DUTIES : The candidate will be in charge of the Chief Directorate, which comprises the
Directorates: Education, Human Resource Planning, Provisioning and
Monitoring; Education Performance Management and Development; Whole
School Evaluation; Education Labour Relations Management and Conditions
of Service; The successful candidate will be responsible for serving the entire
sector and will be expected to lead and manage a team of people, working in
close collaboration with other branches in the Department of Basic Education,
other state departments, and the provincial departments; Ensuring effective
and efficient labour relations; Analysing and reporting on human resources
requirements and capacity; Developing a teacher recruitment strategy and
system; Assessing the effective utilisation and teachers at schools, revamping
the post allocation system by reducing class size at school; Developing and
implementing the Human Resource Management Information System, as well
as improving the effectiveness of the teacher performance system, as part of
the integrated quality management performance evaluation and development
of educators and improving the quality of teaching and learning in South
African.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mahape Tel No: (012) 357 3291 or Ms N Kumalo (012) 357 3398
19
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF CIVILIAN SECRETARIAT FOR POLICE SERVICE
The Civilian Secretariat for Police Service is an equal opportunity, and gender sensitive employer and it
is the intention to promote representivity in the Public Service through the filling of these posts. The
Secretariat for Police service is committed to the achievement and maintenance of diversity and equity
employment.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be mailed timeously to Private Bag X922 Pretoria 0001 or
hand delivered or couriered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Pretorius Street,
Fedsure Building 2nd floor, Pretoria at the Reception Desk. No late applications
will be accepted. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the
candidate being disqualified. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful.
CLOSING : 14 April 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z.83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website or Recruitment Office within the
Secretariat for Police Service. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit a
fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae (e.g. indicating positions
held, dates and key performance areas/responsibilities). Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interviews following communication from the Department. Failure to
submit the requested documents/information will result in your application not
being considered. All shortlisted candidates’ posts will be subjected to a
technical competency exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements
of the job, the logistics of which be communicated by the Department.
Following the interview and technical exercise, the selection panel will
recommend the most suitable candidate. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to a security clearance. The Secretary of Police Service has the right
not to fill the post. All posts are based in Pretoria. Preference will be given to
youth, people with disability and women in accordance with our employment
equity. NB: Please ensure that your application reaches this office not later than
16h00 on week-days.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/15 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: POLICY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: CSP/01/2026
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R1 059 105.per annum (plus 37%)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor Degree in Research, Criminology, Social Sciences, Policing, or
relevant equivalent qualification. Five (5) years’ experience in Research, Policy
Development and Analysis within the safety and security/policing environment
of which three (3) years must be at Assistant Director Level. Understanding of
research strategies, policies and procedures. Knowledge of government
prescripts and procedures, and stakeholder management. Understanding of
IGR Framework in the 3 spheres of government. Ability to use applicable
systems, software and database relating to Policy and Research. Knowledge
of integrated planning and monitoring of stakeholders’ performance within the
safety and security/policing sector. Ability to conduct analysis of Policy and
Research projects and reports. Ability to conduct impact analysis and
assessment. Communication (verbal & written), presentation and facilitation
skills. Project Management and Coordination. Valid Driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Undertake primary and secondary desktop research. Undertake comparative
research with national and international institutions, develop policy guidelines
and procedures. Review and/or update policy. Analyse or scope the research
problem. Draft concept note/ framework to support policy development project,
develop policy project plan. Analyse monitoring and evaluation reports for
policy implications. Identify key policy issues in policing. Conduct analysis of
data collected and existing policy. Identify and evaluate alternatives to policy
development. Present policy data analysis findings. Make recommendations
and compile policy analysis reports. Manage policy and research collaboration
20
relationship with internal and external stakeholders. Present research/ policy
findings to internal and external stakeholders (Government Clusters, NGOs,
Reference groups, etc). Develop networks in the safety and security/policing
environment, cultivate stakeholder engagement process with relevant
stakeholders. Conduct consultation workshop on the draft policy reports with
stakeholders. Coordinate multi-sectoral stakeholders’ meetings. Management
of resources (human and financial).
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM SefitI, Tel 012 4931 388
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to: DD-PolicyDev@csp.gov.za
POST 11/16 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: POLICE PERFORMANCE REF NO: CSP/02/2026
SALARY : R582 444.per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in Public
Administration/ Social Sciences or Development Studies or relevant equivalent
qualification. Four (4) years’ experience in the monitoring, evaluation and
research environment of which two (2) years must be at Senior Practitioner
level. Understanding of monitoring and evaluation strategies, policies and
procedures. Good governance and Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of
Civilian Secretariat for Police Service Act, South African Police Service Act,
community structures, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and
Public Finance Management Act. Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook). Communication (verbal & written) skills. Presentation,
project Management and report writing skills. Planning and organising skills.
Analytical, decision-making and problem solving skills. Drivers licence
DUTIES : Planning and development of documents to guide the monitoring and
evaluation processes for police performance. Support the development of data
collection tools, guidelines and procedures for monitoring police performance.
Consolidate the approved reports recommendations into a template for
effective monitoring of police performance. Schedule and undertake oversight
visits. Develop tabulation plans. Plan and conceptualise projects through the
development of Terms of Reference. Draft police performance project plans.
Ensure the implementation and monitoring of police performance project plans.
Coordinate monitoring and evaluation partnership activities and/or stakeholder
engagement. Ensure data collection and processing. Analyse data collected.
Compile draft reports with findings and recommendations. Management of
resources (human and financial). Preference will be given to Male Coloured,
Indian and White in accordance with our employment equity plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maiko, Tel 012 4931 390
APPLICTIONS : Can be emailed to: ASD-PP@csp.gov.za
POST 11/17 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO: CSP/03/2026
SALARY : R468 459.per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Financial Management/
Management Accounting/ Financial Accounting / Cost Accounting/ Business
Administration/Taxation/Accounting Information Systems or equivalent
relevant qualification. Four (4) years functional experience in Finance
environment, of which three (3) years should be at a State/Senior State
Accountant level. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury-
related Legislations/Framework, Accounting Principles, Practices and Tax.
Knowledge of budgeting processes, Accounting Standards and Financial
systems (BAS, etc). Computer Literacy, communication (verbal & written) skills.
Presentation and project Management skills. Planning and organising skills.
Problem solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Creditors/Supplier Payments Management. Oversee the verification of the
validity and allocation of payments received via electronic transfers. Approval
and management of all S& T Claims and LOGIS payments. Management of
manual PERSAL payments, manage payment of suppliers within 30 days,
oversee the identification and accurate recording of debts owed to the
department. Liaise with debtors in the most complex and problematic cases to
determine payback conditions and time span. Oversee the process of obtaining
the accounting officer’s approval for debt collection conditions. Obtain the
accounting officers approval for debt payback conditions and time span on the
cases handled. Oversee the accurate allocation of monies received,
21
management of suspense accounts, manage bank reconciliations and
bookkeeping matters. Collection of revenue resulting from suspense accounts.
Tax Reconciliation, Payroll management and PERSAL System Controller.
Oversee and review disclosure notes on revenue collection. Amendments of
IRP5 accumulations, availability of IRP’5’s at the end of the tax year.
Submission of Tax Recon in accordance with SARS requirements. Creation
and maintenance of user profiles on PERSAL. Expenditure Management.
Oversee the verification of the capturing of payroll transactions on the
accounting system. Oversee the reconciliation of transactions (interface) on
the payroll (PERSAL) with the accounting system (BAS). Authorise payments
to third parties (employer contributions to pension funds, medical aid funds, tax
contributions and reconciliations etc) outside the payroll system. Oversee the
quality assurance and verification of transactions on BAS/LOGIS. Ensure that
expenditure is in line with budget and item provisioning. Oversee creditor
reconciliation (ensure that service providers are paid timely and correctly).
Authorise the payment of transfers and subsidies processed on the accounting
system. Compile interim and annual financial statements for the department.
Provide information as requested by the AGSA. Keep audit file and supporting
documents available for Internal and External auditors. Management of
resources (human and financial). Preference will be given to Female Coloured,
Indian and White in accordance with our employment equity plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane, Tel 012 4931 1435
APPLICATIONS : Can be emailed to: ASD-FinAcc@csp.gov.za
POST 11/18 : SENIOR PRACTITIONER: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
CSP/04/2026
SALARY : R397 116.per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6 as recognised by SAQA) in
Management Services /Operations Management /Organisational Development
/ Organisation and Work Study/Industrial Psychology/ Public
Management/Administration or relevant equivalent qualification. (Certificate in
Job Evaluation will be an added advantage). Three (3) years’ experience in
Organisational Development/Design environment of which two (2) years
should be at the Organisational Development Practitioner level. In-depth
understanding of the Legislative Framework that governs Organisational
Design, Job Evaluation and Job Descriptions. Knowledge of the Public Service
Compensate Evaluate Grading System. Proven knowledge and experience in
conducting work study investigations, organisational design, job evaluation and
business process mapping. Knowledge of Organisational Design Principles,
Change Management, DPSA Directives and Determination and Operations
Management Framework. Communication (written and verbal), Facilitation,
Presentation, Interpersonal, Analytical, Computer Literacy, Problem solving,
Report writing, Project Management, Business Process Mapping and
research.
DUTIES : Conduct Organisational Design Investigations. Review, align and develop
organisational structure based on Departmental strategic objective and
mandate. Facilitate the determination of post provisioning norms and
standards. Facilitate the costing of the proposed organisational structure and
post establishment. Facilitate the implementation of organisational design and
development strategies. Conduct Job Evaluation in line with the Departmental
Na National Policy guidelines. Identify and prioritise jobs to be evaluated.
Conduct job evaluation on identified and prioritised jobs (newly and existing
jobs). Present the evaluated jobs to the Job Evaluation Panel for
recommendations. Update the Job Evaluation Executive Summary in line with
approved JE results. Maintain the job evaluation database. Facilitate the
development and review of job descriptions. Identify job descriptions to be
developed and reviewed. Draft job descriptions and submit to relevant
stakeholders for inputs, confirmation and sign off. Quality assure job
descriptions received from line managers/subordinates. Maintain the job
description database. Conduct Organisational Functionality Assessment.
Participate in the development and review of the Service Delivery Model,
Service Charter and Service Delivery Improvement Plans. Participate in the
compilation of the OFA report and implementation plan. Conduct workshops for
work streams within CSPS. Consolidate inputs from the work streams and
submit to supervisor for consideration. Keep record of the Operations
22
Management Framework Documents. Conduct Work Study Investigations.
Receive and acknowledge requests for work study investigations. Meet with
relevant stakeholders to gather more information/data on request. Conduct
research and benchmark exercise with other departments to determine best
practices. Draft preliminary work study report and submit to supervisor for
inputs and advise. Keep record of approved submissions. Preference will be
given to Male African, Coloured, Indian, White, Youth and people with disability
in accordance with our employment equity plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MD Mashifane, Tel 012 4931 1435
APPLICTIONS : Can be emailed to: SOD-Pract@csp.gov.za
POST 11/19 : ICT SUPPORT TECHNICIAN REF NO: CSP/05/2026
SALARY : R325 101.per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 6) as recognised by SAQA in Information
Technology/Computer Science or equivalent qualification. Minimum of two 2 to
3 years of experience within Information Technology support environment.
Knowledge and/or qualification in a recognised framework for ICT service,
Microsoft Windows, ICT Systems and transversal systems (BAS, PERSAL or
LOGIS). Sound understanding of computer systems (hardware/software),
networks etc. Knowledge of Client User IT environment and exposure to
business applications platforms. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles, Public
Service Act, Public Finance Management Act, Government Information
Technology Officers Council. Protection of Personal Information (POPI) Act No.
4 of 2013. Computer Literacy, communication (verbal & written) Skills. Planning
and organising, team leadership, problem solving and decision-making skills.
Ability to prioritise, delegate and stick to strict deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide ICT service desk administration and support. Act as a first point of
contact for IT incidents reporting and service request handling. Coordinate all
the incoming requests in a form of phone calls, emails and tickets logged to the
IT service desk. Provide regular feedback to customers/users and IT group on
logged calls/incidents progress. Ensure compliance with ICT policies and
procedures. Provide users with support regarding hardware, software and
network connectivity. Render Local Area Network (LAN) and Wide Area
Network (WAN) administration and support. Perform installation, maintenance
and upgrading of computer hardware. Install and upgrade software
applications. Provide support and maintenance of the department's
telecommunications and audio-visual equipment systems. Ensure end-users
systems are backed up and restorable. Provide and Maintain Internet and
Email Client Services. Provide users with support regarding password
activation/change. Ensure that antivirus software signature and operating
systems are up to date. Compile and submit accurate monthly, quarterly, and
ad hoc ICT reports. Maintain ICT asset registers, assist with ICT procurement
processes, including preparation of specifications, quotations, and supporting
documentation. Maintain records for software licenses and warranties. Advice
users on ICT policies. Maintain IT asset registers and compile technical reports
for asset disposals. Monitor the adherence to SLAs and OLAs by the internal
ICT service providers. Preference will be given to Male and Female Coloured,
Indian, White, Youth and People with disability in accordance with our
employment equity plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MAIKO, Tel 012 4931 390
APPLICTIONS : Can be emailed to: ICTSuppTech@csp.gov.za
POST 11/20 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: CSP/06/2026
SALARY : R163 680.per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 or ABET Level 4. One (1) to two (2) years driver/messenger working
experience. National Traffic Regulations. Knowledge of messenger/driver
processes and procedures. Experience in handling confidential and classified
documents. Knowledge of local routes and Traffic Laws. Ability to assess
condition / road worthiness of motor vehicles to ensure safety of self and
passengers. Ability to read and use GPS to navigate locations. Communication
(verbal & written skills). Interpersonal, customer orientated and time
management. Planning, organising and coordinating. Driving skills. Valid SA
Driver’s license (Code 10/C1). Professional Driver’s Permit (PDP).
23
DUTIES : Drive light and medium motor vehicles to transport passengers and deliver
other items (e.g. Mail and Documents). Transport passenger/s and other items
to the correct destination. Shuttling employees to various destinations for
official purposes. Deliver, collect and distribute official documents, mail and
parcels to the correct destination. Adhere to safety protocols and driving
regulations. Check vehicle each time before driving e.g. oil, water etc). Refer
vehicle when due for service, report mechanical defects to the supervisor and
always keep the vehicle clean. Obtain authorisation for vehicle use, complete
the required documentation and always keep all receipts and necessary
prescribed records and logbooks. Assist with the checking of logbooks. Collect
and deliver documentation and related items in the department. Copy and e-
mail transport documents. Assist in the registry office, assist with any other
duties delegated by the supervisor. Assist with transport filing and signing
delivery notes services. Preference will be given to Female African, Coloured,
Indian, White and Youth in accordance with our employment equity plan.
ENQUIRIES : Mr OP Phomane, Tel 012 493 1439
APPLICTIONS : Can be emailed to: Driver@csp.gov.za
24
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment. Zipped and
JPEG documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the
reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct
email address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will
be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/21 : BUSINESS ANALYST (ICT) REF NO: HR4/26/04/01HO
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF6 as recognized by SAQA in Information Technology/
Information Systems. ITIL and COBIT Certificate will be an advantage. Five (5)
25
years’ functional experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC),
gathering Business and Functional requirements and Process Modelling.
Knowledge: Prescribed Technical standards and procedures, Technology &
Systems knowledge, Database design, Business & Industry knowledge, Public
Service Regulations, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Public Financial Management Act, Public Service Act, Project
Management Principles. Skills: Problem solving, Excellent verbal and written
communication, Analytical thinking, Software Development Lifecycle, Team
Player, Problem solving, Technical and Analytical, Ability to work under tight
deadlines and handle multiple assignments, Ability to influence at all levels of
the organization, Sound knowledge of Service Orientated Architecture,
Negotiations, Conflict Management.
DUTIES : Elicit and analyse business, system and data requirements to compile
documentation for business solutions. Compile, validate and facilitate approval
of business and system requirements. Participate and provide inputs during
solution delivery life cycle. Identify training and development requirements of
end users. Assess and resolve or reassign incident and problem management
support of existing applications.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Cronje Tel: (012) 309 4876
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X 117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street. Email: Jobs-
HQ23@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
POST 11/22 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE OPERATIONS REF NO
HR4/25/04/07
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Supported Employment Enterprises, Silverton, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) in Human Resource Management/Labour Relations/Public
Management/Public Administration. Valid driver’s licence. Five (5) years’
experience of which two (2) years Middle Management experience (ASD Level)
and three (3) years Functional experience in Human Resource
Management/Labour Relations environment. Knowledge: Recruitment and
Selection, Human Resource Administration, Relevant Labour Relation
Legislations, Public Service Regulation Act, Basic Condition of Employment
Act, Departmental policies and procedures, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Project Management, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Management,
Interpersonal, Communication (verbal and written), Computer Literacy,
Negotiation, Patience and empathy, Presentation.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of recruitment and selection policy within the
Supported Employment Enterprises. Manage and administer service benefits
within the Supported Employment Enterprises. Ensure Sound Employee
Relations in the Supported Employment Enterprises. Manage the resources
within the HR unit of the Supported Employment Enterprises.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WK Tselane Tel: 012 843 7300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X 117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head OfficeEmail: Jobs-
SEE07@labour.gov.za
POST 11/23 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE (X2
POSTS)
SALARY : R582 444 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Pietermaritzburg –Ref No: HR4/4/3/28 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Verulam – Ref No: HR4/4/3/46 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF7) in Environment Health/ Occupational Health/ Hygiene/ Analytical
Chemistry/ Chemical Engineering. Valid Driver’s License. Four (4) years
functional experience in Health and Hygiene inspection/ services. Knowledge:
Department policies and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Act
and Regulations, OHS Act and Regulations, OHS standards, OHS
Management System. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing, Computer
Literacy, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Interviewing Listening and
26
Observation, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Research, Project
Management.
DUTIES : Provide inputs into the development of Health and Hygiene policies and ensure
implementation of OHS strategy for the Department of Labour in terms of OHS
Legislation. Conduct complex inspections for Health and Hygiene regularly as
per Inspection programme. Conduct technical research on the latest trends in
Occupational Health and Hygiene within Identified sector. Provide support for
enforcement action, including preparation of reports for legal proceedings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M September Tel: (033) 341 5300 (Pietermaritzburg)
Mr B Zondi Tel: (032) 541 5600 (Verulam)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Pietermaritzburg Labour Centre, P/Bag X 9048,
Pietermaritzburg 3201 or hand deliver at 370 Langalibalele Street,
Pietermaritzburg. For Online Applications: Jobs-KZN12@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Verulam Labour Centre, PO Box 1144, Verulam 4340 Or hand
deliver at 13 Wick Street, Verulam. For Online Applications: Jobs-
KZN25@labour.gov.za
POST 11/24 : TEAM LEADER: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/5/23
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Durban Labour Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year qualification in Labour Relations/ Labour Law/ LLB/ BCOM Law.
Two (2) years functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services.
Valid Driver’s License. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act,
COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment
Insurance Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act. Skills:
Facilitation skills, Planning and organizing, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal
skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills,
Interviewing skills, Presentation skills, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and written
skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with all Labour legislations, namely, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Acts (LRA), Employment Equity Act
(EEA), Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act (COID), Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) and
UI Contributions Act (UCA). Plan and execute investigations independently on
reported cases pertaining to contravention pf Labour legislations and enforce
as and when necessary, including making preparations for and appearing in
Court as a State witness. Plan and conduct allocated proactive (BLITZ)
inspections regularly to monitor compliance with Labour legislation including
compilation and consolidation of reports emanating from such inspections.
Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all Labour legislation independently,
analyze impact therefore, consolidate and compile report. Manage the
finalization of files of cases received and investigations conducted by the
Inspectors. Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance
of regional plans and reports including executions of analysis and compilation
of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases. Ensure that
non-compliant employers are referred for prosecution within the relevant time
frames.
ENQUIRIES : Mr SA Mchunu, Tel: (031) 336 1500
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Durban Labour Centre, PO Box 10074, Durban 4056 Or hand
deliver at Govt Buildings Masonic Grove, 16 Beach Grove, Durban. For online
applications email Jobs-KZN7@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 11/25 : SENIOR FRAUD INVESTIGATOR REF NO: HR4/4/4/03/01
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Three years’ relevant tertiary qualification in Risk Management/ Internal Audit/
Risk and Security Management/Accounting/Law/Policing/Forensic
Investigation/CFE qualification. Two (2) years functional experience in anti-
27
fraud and corruption environment. ACFE membership will be an added
advantage. Prepared to travel nationally (In possession of a at least a Code 8
driver’s license). Knowledge: Investigative Principles and Practices,
Departmental and the Fund’s Policies and Procedures, Public Financial
Management Act (PFMA), Unemployment Insurance and Unemployment
Insurance Contribution Act, Basic Knowledge of all Labour legislations, Anti-
Fraud and Corruption Policies, Legal environment: Court and Criminal
procedures, Fraud related administration and operations, Batho Pele
Principles. Skills: Planning and Organizing skills, Time Management, Conflict
Management, Analytical Skills, Investigation skills, Computer Literacy,
Presentation skills, Communication skills, Report writing Skills.
DUTIES : Implement Fraud and Corruption Prevention Strategies, Conduct
Investigations on reported Fraud and Corruption, analyse system capabilities
to anti-fraud management programmes. Liaise with appropriate sections within
the Department of Employment & Labour and external stakeholders on Fraud
Prevention measures. Supervise resources in the Section.
ENQURIES : Ms SI Tyantsi Tel: (011) 853 0899
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 4560, Johannesburg, 2001 or
hand deliver at 47 Empire Road, Parktown. For online applications email: Jobs-
GP-PO/3@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Management, Provincial Office: Gauteng
POST 11/26 : INSPECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Gqeberha –Ref: HR4/4/7/02 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: East London – Ref: HR4/4/7/03 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year relevant tertiary qualification Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/
LLB. One (1) year functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement
Services. A valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies,
procedures, Skills Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and
Safety Act, COIDA, Unemployment Insurance Act, UI Contribution Act,
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing
(Mainly for own), Computer literacy, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling skills,
Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills, Interviewing, listening and
observation skills, Presentation skills, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and written
communication skills.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA). Execute
investigations independently on reported cases pertaining to contravention of
labour legislation and enforce as and when necessary. Plan and conduct
proactive (Blitz) inspection regularly to monitor compliance with labour
legislation. Conduct advocacy campaign on all Labour Legislation
independently. Draft and maintain inspection plans and reports including
analysis and compilation of consolidated statistical reports on only allocated
cases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njamela, Tel: (043) 702 7500 – East London Labour Centre
Mr SC Mshumpela, Tel: (041) 506 5000 – Gqeberha Labour Centre
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations : Private Bag X9084, East London,
5201, hand deliver at IGI Building, Ensuco House, Cnr Oxford and Hill Str, East
London, 5201; Email: Jobs-ECELN@LABOUR.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations Private Bag X6045, Gqeberha,
6000 hand deliver at 116-134 Govan mbeki Avenue, Central, VSN Building,
Gqeberha, 6000; Email: Jobs-ECPLZ@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 11/27 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: UIF (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Komani Labour Centre-Ref No: HR4/4/1/05 (X4 Posts)
Richards Bay Labour Centre– Ref No: HR4/4/3/44 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Department of Labour and UIF Policies and
Procedures, Treasury Regulations, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values,
Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles.
28
Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical and On job training (operational
systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF Benefits. Register
payment continuation forms, Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. U Thambo Tel (045) 807 5400
Mr I Ximba Tel: (035) 780 8708 (Richards Bay)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag x 323, Queenstown,
5320 or hand deliver at No 10 Robison Road, Queenstown or email at Jobs-
ECQTN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Richards Bay Labour Centre, P/Bag X 20033, Empangeni
3880 Or hand deliver at 11 Lira Rink Road, Richards Bay. For Online
Applications: Jobs-KZN28@labour.gov.za
POST 11/28 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: EMPLOYER SERVICES (X7 POSTS)
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Joubertina Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4/9/16 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Louterwater Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4/9/17 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Misgund Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4/9/18 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Hankey Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4/9/19 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Patensie Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4/9/20 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Jeffreysbay Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4/9/21 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Humansdorp Satellite Office –Ref:
HR/4/4/9/22 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Department of Labour and UIF Policies and
Procedures, Treasury Regulations, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values,
Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical and On job training (operational
systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services, Process applications for UIF Benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Koba Tel: 041 995 7047
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, 15A Chase Street Kariega 6230.
Email Jobs- ECUHG@labour.gov.za
POST 11/29 : INSPECTOR (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Ladysmith- Ref No: HR4/4/3/43 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: East London –Ref No: HR4/4/7/01 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification in Labour Relations/ BCOM Law/ LLB.
Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures, Skills
Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act.
Skills: Facilitation skills, Planning and Organizing (Own work), Computing
(Spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing), Interpersonal skills,
Problem Solving skills, Interviewing skills, Analytical, Verbal and written
communication skills, Employment Equity Act.
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations, Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
29
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary,
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation, Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation, Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Radebe Tel: (036) 638 1900
Mr M Njamela, Tel: (043) 702 7500 – East London
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Ladysmith Labour Centre, P/ Bag X9926, Ladysmith 3370 Or
hand deliver at 35 Keate Street, Ladysmith. Email: Jobs-KZN5@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X9084, East London,
5201, hand deliver at IGI Building, Ensuco House, Cnr Oxford and Hill Str, East
London, 5201; Email: Jobs-ECELN@LABOUR.gov.za
POST 11/30 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (2X
POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: East London- Ref: HR 4/4/10/01 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega - Ref: HR 4/4/10/02 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. will be an added
advantage. Knowledge: policies, procedures and guidelines, Employment
Services Act, Public Service Act and Regulations, Batho Pele Principles. Skills:
Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Problem solving, Ability to
interpret legislations.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njamela Tel: 043 702 7500
Ms W Koba Tel: 041 995 7047
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations IG Building Ensuco House NR Hill
and Church Streets East London 5201. Email: Jobs –ECELN@labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, 15A Chase Street Kariega 6230.
Email: Jobs- ECUHT@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations
POST 11/31 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO: HR4/4/3/27
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Dundee
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Administrative
procedures relating to an office. Filing and retrieval of documents. Ability to
operate fax machine and a photocopier. Data capturing. Skills: Planning and
Organizing, Communication, Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render administration support services to the Directorate. Control the
movement of documents and files in the Directorate. Provide Supply Chain
Management support in the Directorate. Render Human Resource Services
support for the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Khumalo, Tel: (034) 299 7000
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Dundee Labour Centre, PO Box 445, Dundee or hand deliver
at 63 Victoria Street, Dundee. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN4@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
POST 11/32 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: HR4/4/3/42
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Ladysmith – KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele principles,
Departmental Policies and Procedures, Treasury Regulations. Skills: Verbal
and written communication, Interpersonal Relations, Problem Solving,
Computer Literacy, Analytical, Planning and Organizing.
30
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre. Provide a
Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre. Render a
Human Resource Management. Responsible for training and performance
activities in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the records management in a
Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Radebe Tel: (036) 638 1900
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Ladysmith Labour Centre, P/Bag X 9926, Ladysmith 3370 Or
hand deliver at 35 Keate Street, Ladysmith. For Online Application: Jobs-
KZN5@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, KwaZulu-Natal
31
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email.
Cape Town: Private Bag X4390, Cape Town, 8000 or hand-deliver to No 63
Strand Street, Cape Town KZN: Must be hand-deliver to 185 Langalibalele
Street, Old Mutual Building, Pietermaritzburg,3200 5th floor
CLOSING DATE : 20 April 2026, 16:00. No late application will be accepted
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical passement for all SMS posts, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
32
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/33 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND
ELECTRONICS) GRADE A (REF NO: OC05/2026)
SALARY : R522 741 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Engineering or relevant qualification as recognized
by SAQA. Compulsory registration with the ECSA as an Engineering
technician, 6 years’ post qualification experience required. The incumbent must
have knowledge of following; Project management, technical design and
analysis research and development, legal compliance, technical report writing,
technical consulting, South Africa Ocean research efforts, Knowledge and
understanding of electronic maintenance and support. Understanding of
science and knowledge of the technical support requirements to conduct
rigorous scientific research. Knowledge of departmental policies and
procedures. Knowledge of public service and Departmental policy and
procedures. The incumbent must have the following skills & competencies;
decision making, team leadership, analytical skills, self-management, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication and
computer literacy. Skills in Networking, people management, planning and
organizing., conflict management, change management, problem solving and
analysis. The following personal attributes are required; honesty, ability to work
long hours voluntarily, ability to gather and analyse information, ability to
develop and apply policies, ability to work individually and in team, good
interpersonal relations skills, creativity, ability to work under pressure and
ability to work with difficult persons and to resolve conflict.
DUTIES : The candidate will be responsible to Monitor and report on the performance of
the communication systems and associated peripherals. Monitor and report on
the performance of contractors and service providers to ensure adherence to
SLA’s. Provide and consolidate inputs to the technical and /or engineering work
plan. Document procedures, software updates and system configurations.
Prepare Maintenance plans for equipment at the SANAP bases in accordance
with the schedule of voyages. Updates of existing manuals, standards,
drawings & procedures as applicable. Provide mentorship and supervision to
the overwintering personal at the SANAP bases. Responsible for installing,
repairing, maintaining, troubleshooting, testing and operation of
Communication and IT systems; Ensure IT network usability and optimal
performance. Ensure that all HF and VHF radios are properly tested and are
functional before each voyage. Ensure the serviceability of all the recreational,
audio-visual and appliances at the bases. Ensure the serviceability of medical
equipment used at the bases. Ensure that the bases are equipped with the
required technical tools to perform repairs in the constraints of the environment.
Ensure the procurement of Communication, IT, Recreational, Audio-visual and
Appliances for the SANAP bases. Compile and submit reports and other
submissions as required. Compile and Manage an equipment inventory in
accordance with Departmental asset management policies. Provide input to
the maintenance budget and the capital budget. Manage and maintain
contracts and Service Level Agreements with service providers. Plan and
prepare for relief voyages, which include: meetings with all stakeholders, liaise
with all orders, keep track with appointments, issuing of permits, etc. Provide
support with the HR recruitment process for overwintering personal. Ensure
training is provided to over-winterers on the operation of all radio and SAR
equipment. Ensure the availability of PIN codes for all voyage participants and
the recycling thereof. Liaise with scientific stakeholders regarding the
instruments, equipment and website. Participate in annual relief voyages as
required. Ensure continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures; Research/literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise; Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on engineering-related matters; Keep track with various
Scientific projects at the research bases, as well as ship-based research;
Participate on meetings/workshop/forum to stay abreast with technologies.
Evaluate existing network and communication systems and makes
recommendations for new resources to expand service levels. Identify,
evaluate, and recommend new installations after evaluating the impact on
current systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Boshoff, Tel: (021) 493 7379
33
APPLICATIONS : OC05-2026@dffe.gov.za
POST 11/34 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT GOVERNANCE AND PLANNING SUPPORT
(REF NO: CMS19/2026)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Information Technology or relevant qualification
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in ICT environment,
IT governance, IT risk or relevant field, COBIT/ITIL will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of IT corporate governance frameworks, Public Service Regulatory
framework, DPSA directives and determinations, Public Finance Management
Act and Treasury Regulations, IT practice & procedures, administrative
procedures, project management, IT Planning, Strategic Planning
Management, Audit processes. Knowledge of people management, change
management, financial management, coordination and stakeholder liaison.
Good communication skills (verbal and written). Policy development and
implementation. Sound research, analytical, organizing, planning, presentation
and interpersonal skills. Ability to gather and analyze information. Ability to
develop and implement policies. Ability to work individually and in team.
DUTIES : Coordinate GITO compliance and reporting. Participate in the implementation
of the Corporate Governance of ICT policy. Provide secretarial services to ICT
governance structures. Participate in the development and review of ICT
related policies. Provide stakeholder engagement support. Coordinate various
GITO Reporting queries and facilitate for appropriate response. Draft and
consolidate ICT plans. Facilitate the implementation of ICT Plans. Coordinate
the development of the annual ICT risk plan/register. Coordinate the
implementation of Audit and Risk plans. Participate in the implementation of
ICT related DPSA determinations and directives.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Chaka, Tel (012) 399 9955
APPLICATIONS : CMS19-2026@dffe.gov.za
POST 11/35 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: CMS20/2026 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Provide support, advice and facilitate the implementation of labour relations
framework in the Department through the following key performance areas:
Ensure misconduct and dispute cases are handled promptly and effectively.
Investigate cases and compile investigation reports. Draft sound charges of
misconduct. Prepare witnesses for disciplinary hearing. Represent the
department in disciplinary hearings. Represent the department in arbitrations.
Ensure the facilitation of grievance resolution. Provide advice and development
on labour relations matters. Prepare reports.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible to ensure misconduct cases are
handled promptly and effectively, Scrutinize investigation reports from
investigation officers and determine grounds for misconduct., Conduct
supplementary investigation on reports which do not cover all aspects of the
allegations to be pursued, Ensure sanctions are implemented and HR informed
of outcomes that require Persal implementation, Facilitate the referring of
appeals to the appeal authority by providing advice on merits of the case,
Ensure the facilitation of grievance procedures, Investigate grievances
received and identify findings and recommendations on conclusion, Facilitate
the appointment of Investigation officers, Facilitate conciliation and / or
mediation meetings, Provide advice and development on labour relations
matters, Identify gaps and facilitate information sessions for branches with
challenges on employment relationship, Coordinate workshops on ER
processes and ensure stakeholders are engaged on course content, Facilitate
monthly code of conduct inductions, Reports compliance support, Ensure
dispute cases are handled effectively, Monitor the receipt of referral forms and
notices of conciliation and arbitration if they are properly served to the
Department, Identify and advice on motivations to be done of services procured
for dispute cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Qaqane, Tel: (012) 399 8850
APPLICATION : CMS20-2026@dffe.gov.za
34
POST 11/36 : SENIOR HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTITIONER: PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT (REF NO CMS21/2026)
(Re-advertisement – Candidates who previously applied must re-apply)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Human Resource Management/Development or
relevant qualification as recognized by SASQA. A minimum of two (2) years’
experience in performance management or relevant field and PERSAL
Certificate, a valid Driver’s license will serve as an advantage. Knowledge of
Human Resource Management with specific reference to performance
management. Knowledge of Departmental procedures and prescripts within
the Public Service. Knowledge of Human Resource processes and practices.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Incentive framework (OSD &
Non-OSD), Public Service Regulation, Public Service Act, DPSA directives,
Labour Relations Act, and Treasury Regulations. Batho Pele principles.
Analytical thinking, problem-solving skills, planning & execution skills, time
management, presentation skills, communication, practical Knowledge of
Computer Skills, report Writing Skills and project Management.
DUTIES : Facilitate the PMDS processes of submission of Performance Agreements,
Mid-term assessments, Annual assessments and probation reports for both
members of Senior Management Service (SMS) and non-SMS. Quality assure
SMS and non-SMS Performance Agreements, Mid-term assessments, Annual
assessments, and probation reports. Administer SMS and non-SMS
moderation processes. Maintain databases for Senior Management Service
(SMS) and non-SMS members. Implementations of the incentive framework
on PERSAL such pay progression, OSD & non-OSD transalitions. Capturing
of signed performance agreements, assessments, probation reviews and
Compulsory Induction Programme (CIP) certificate. Conduct training and
empower line managers and non-SMS officials on PMDS process. Monitor
poor performance improvement plans, dispute resolution, and update
databases. Provide technical advice to stakeholders, and management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Chauke Tel: 012 399 8651
APPLICATION : CMS21-2026@dffe.gov.za
POST 11/37 : SENIOR FORESTER: STATE FORESTS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
FOM28/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Mbazwana (KZN)
Kwagubeshe (KZN)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry or relevant qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A Minimum of two (2) years’ experience in Forestry or relevant field.
Knowledge of the National Forests Act, 1998 (Act 84 of 1998) and the National
Veld and Forest Fires Act, 1998 (Act 101 of 1998) including other relevant
legislations such as NEMA, NEMBA, CARA, Protected Areas Act, Public
Services Act, PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the forest and
environmental management sector. Knowledge of PCI&S management
Framework. People management and empowerment. Client orientation and
customer focus. Financial Management. Project and Programme
Management. Good communication skills (written and verbal). Facilitation and
negotiation skills. Conflict management skills. Planning and organizing skills.
Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under pressure and work
long hours. Ability to work individually and in a team. willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Render commercial activities in state forest plantations. Implement operational
plans for the state forest plantations. Quality assure work rendered by services
providers. Development of management plans. Assist in compiling and
updating annual plans of operations. Plan and conduct physical verification for
state forest plantations in the region. Monitor compliance with applicable
business processes for management of state forest plantations. Prepare
weekly and monthly reports. Implement the Audit Action Plan and keep record
of evidence. Create jobs through Expanded Public Works Programme. Ensure
protection of plantations from fires, livestock and pests. Assist with the
implementation, enforcement and promotion of the National Forest Act (NFA),
Conservation of Natural Resources Act (CARA) and National Veld Forest Fire
Act (NVFFA). Administer forestry support services. Participate in stakeholder
engagements. Conduct awareness campaigns.
35
ENQUIRIES : Eve Mkhwanazi, Cell: (082) 882 1317
APPLICATIONS : FOM28-2026@dffe.gov.za
36
ANNEXURE F
NATIONAL DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
It is the Department’s intension to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filing of this
post with a candidate whose transfer /promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : The Director-General, National Department of Health, Private Bag X399,
Pretoria. 0001. Hand delivered application may be submitted at Reception
(Brown Application Box), Dr AB Xuma Building, 1112 Voortrekker Rd, Pretoria
Townlands 351-JR or should be forwarded to recruitment@health.gov.za
quoting the reference number on the subject e-mail.
CLOSING DATE : 15 April 2026
FOR ATTENTION : Ms M Shitiba
NOTE : All short-listed candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends
to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise for SMS posts, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the
DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based assessments).
The competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment batteries.
Applications should be submitted on the new Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service department and should be accompanied by a CV only (previous
experience must be comprehensively detailed). The Z83 must be fully
completed (in line with DPSA Practice note), failure to comply will automatically
disqualify the applicant. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualification and other relevant documents on application. Certified copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents will be requested prior to the final
selection phase. Applications should be on one PDF format (If emailed).
Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply with
the requirements will not be considered. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
have foreign qualifications and national certificates (where applicable)
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Please note by
responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection, processing, and
storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your information will be used solely for the
purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to fill
the posts. The successful candidate will be subjected to personnel suitability
checks and other vetting procedures. Applicants are respectfully informed that
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If notification of
an interview is not received within three (3) months after the closing date,
candidates may regard their application as unsuccessful. The Department will
not be liable where applicants use incorrect/no reference number(s) on their
applications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/38 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PROJECT MANAGEMENT (REF NO: NDOH 25/2026)
(3 POSTS)
This is a re-advertisement. Applicants who have previously applied need to re-
apply.
Chief Directorate: Digital Health Information Systems
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package) (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Health Sciences or Social
Sciences or Economics or ICT with a Post Graduate qualification in Agile
Management / Project Management. A post Graduate qualification in Public
Health and registration with the Project Management Institute or Certification
(e.g. CAPM, PMP, Prince2-Practitioner) will be an advantage. Experience in
37
managing projects in the Health Sector will be an added advantage.
Knowledge and understanding of the Digital Health Context and its various
aspects, from strategy to implementation, digital health identity management,
digital health interoperability, project management methodologies, ICT
governance standards, policies and procedures, Public Finance Management
Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, ICT systems development
processes and implementation. Good communication (verbal and written),
strategic thinking and planning, team management, analytical thinking, risk and
issue management, financial management, quality management, contract
management, project integration management, conflict resolution, facilitation,
change management and computer skills (MS Office package). Ability to plan,
work independently and as part of a team as well as working in a structured
and unstructured environment where initiatives are pioneering with no previous
roadmap to access. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Develop projects scope and projects plans. Identify the purpose and goals of
the project. Ensure objectives are SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable,
Relevant, Time-bound). List of all stakeholders involved in or affected by the
project. Document functional and non-functional requirements. Oversee and
ensure that projects are delivered on time, in budget and to the required quality
standard as per project schedules. Identify the resources (human, financial,
material) needed for each task. Estimate the time required to complete each
task. Use tools like Gantt charts, scrum, Kanban or project management
software. Manage, monitor and evaluate the cross functional team assigned to
the project. Align team goals with organizational objectives to ensure relevance
and support. Schedule regular team meetings to discuss progress, challenges,
and next steps. Implement performance metrics to track the progress of the
project and individual contributions. Create and maintain comprehensive
project documentation. Define the types of documentation required for the
project (e.g. project charter, scope statement, requirements documents).
Create a project charter that outlines the project’s purpose, objectives,
stakeholders, and high-level requirements. Ensure that the charter is approved
by key stakeholders to provide a clear project mandate. Develop a scope
statement that clearly defines what is included and excludes from the project.
Perform risk management to minimize project risks. Identify and document
potential risks, including their likelihood and impact. Create a risk management
plan that outlines mitigation strategies and contingency plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Jali at Tel No: 012 395-8068
POST 11/39 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT SECURITY REF NO: NDOH 27/2026
Directorate: Information Communication Technology
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (An all-inclusive remuneration package (basic salary
consists of 70% or 75% of total package), salary package will be structured
according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 7 qualification in Information
Technology/Information Security or Computer Systems as recognized by
SAQA. ITIL foundation and COBIT certification and any accreditation
(Security+, CISA, CISSP, CISM, CRISK) will be an advantage. At least three
(3) Years of IT experience as Assistant Director or equivalent level as well as
supervisory experience. Experience in an Information Security role, in working
with legal audit and compliance staff, developing and maintaining policies,
procedures, standards and guidelines as well as experience in information
security management frameworks, such as International standards
Organization (ISO) 2700x/ the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) / Control
Objectives for Information & Related Technology (COBIT) frameworks.
Knowledge of ICT Governance, Risk, Security, Compliance and Continuity
methodologies and practices, IT Infrastructure Lifecycle Management and ICT
Networks (LAN & WAN technologies). Knowledge of ICT Controls and ICT
System Development, Backup, Restore, Disaster Recovery and Archiving.
Knowledge and understanding of relevant legal and regulatory requirements,
such as DPSA Corporate Governance of ICT Policy Framework, Cloud
Security Policy, Government Wide Enterprise Architecture etc.
Knowledge/Certification on COBIT methodology. Knowledge of ISO 27000
standard, ISO 22301, ISO 38500 and ISO 31000 will be an added advantage.
Good communication (verbal and written), analytical, project management,
policy development, people management, problem solving and decision
38
making, planning and organizing and computer skills (MS office package). A
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide strategic support in alignment with business goals and management
of resources. Develop, implement, and monitor a strategic, comprehensive
departmental information security and IT risk management program to ensure
that the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of information is owned,
controlled or processed by the department. Provide ICT security support and
maintain compliance with security standards and minimizing of risks. Manage
outsourced vendors that provide information security functions for compliance
with contracted service-level agreements. Provide architecture/engineering
support in designing, implementing, and maintaining robust, scalable, and
secure systems. Consult with IT and security staff to ensure that security is
factored into the evaluation, selection, installation and configuration of
hardware, applications and software. Provide security liaison role by ensuring
that security policies, compliance, and risk management are integrated into all
ICT activities. Assist resource owners and IT staff in understanding and
responding to security audit failures reported by auditors. Manage personnel
and various security initiatives/projects to ensure alignment with organizational
goals, compliance, and audit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mabuza at Tel No: 012 395 8647
POST 11/40 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BARRIER METHOD REF NO: NDOH 26/2026
Directorate: HIV/AIDS Prevention Strategies.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum plus competitive benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate and NQF 6 qualification in Biomedical Technology /
Health Science. At least three (3) years’ experience in STI and condom
programme training as well as in addressing condom-related complaints and
quality issues. Knowledge of procurement and distribution of male and female
condoms, supply chain and logistics management systems, policy and
guideline development, monitoring and evaluation frameworks and knowledge
of Public Service Regulation and Public Service Act. Good communication
(verbal and written), planning and organizing, interpersonal, presentation and
facilitation, decision making, team management, and computer (Microsoft
package) skills. Ability to work under pressure, independently and with a team.
A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Coordination of barrier method sub programme activities. Facilitate and
coordinate male and female condom projections in provinces, coordinate
distribution of condoms from contracted suppliers, ensure alignment with
National HIV and STI prevention strategies. Provide support to provinces in
coordinating LMIS, condom and barrier methods training and re-orientation.
Provide technical support on condom protection and distribution systems,
strengthen provincial capacity for programme implementation, provide support
and capacity building as well as development of protocols and guidelines.
Monitor and report on the implementation of the condom programme in the
provinces, including key intervention sites. Provide guidance on the
interpretation and application of national directives, liaise with relevant
stakeholders, including HTA structures and partners. Monitor, facilitate, and
communicate to provinces on matters relating to barriers methods. Facilitate
development and review of condom marketing strategies and policies,
coordinate the annual STI/Condom week campaign. Monitor evaluation of
barriers method sub programme. Monitor batch testing results from SABS,
conduct site visits to provincial PDSs and warehouses, evaluate programme
performance and recommend improvements.
ENQUIRIES : MM Zondi on Tel No: 0123959091
39
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
NOTE : The Department of Home Affairs is a merit-based and equal opportunity
employer. It is our intention to appoint excellent candidates whilst harnessing
the power of diversity. People with Disabilities, Youth, unemployed Graduates
and Woman are encouraged to apply. We are looking for committed,
passionate and talented individuals to form part of a new leadership team,
equipped with the right skills to facilitate the transformation of Home Affairs into
a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to delivering on
the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation,
ascribe to the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to serve the
needs of South African citizens, residents and visitors with the highest levels
of professionalism and integrity, and your credentials meet the requirements of
any of the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date. The
Department of Home Affairs subscribes to the provisions of the Protection of
Personal Information Act (Act 4 of 2013). As such, the Department will use the
personal information provided by Applicants for recruitment purposes in
reference to posts applied for. This information may be retained for audit
purposes. The Department undertakes to protect the confidentiality of all
personal information provided, and will not disclose such to any unauthorised
person, except where it is legally compelled to do so or it is necessary in
furthering recruitment purposes. The submission of an application (including
any additional / supporting information), is considered as an Applicant’s
consent hereto.Applications must be submitted online at
https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent to the correct address specified at the
bottom of the posts, on or before the closing date, accompanied by a fully
completed Application for Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1
January 2021), obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number
and job title, and a comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy),
job title, duties performed and exit reason for each employment period to be
considered, as well as the details of at least two contactable employment
references (as recent as possible), regardless of online or manual submission.
All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will
also be required to submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license
(if specified as a job requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL
certificates / Academic Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting
letters as directed. Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign
qualification(s), are required to submit the evaluated results of such
qualifications, as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA); will be subjected to an interview, various relevant tests and
assessments, and employment suitability checks (credit, criminal, citizenship,
qualifications, and employment references including verification of exit
reasons, and conducting business with State). Once appointed, serving of a
prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a security clearance appropriate
to the post, will be required. Correspondence between the Department and
candidates will be limited to shortlisted candidates, ONLY.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/41 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATION, REF NO:
HRMC 11/26/1
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12). (An all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane, Sub -Directorate: Amendments and Rectifications
40
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management,
Public Administration, or Operations Management at NQF 6 as recognized by
SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior
Management) level is required. Knowledge and understanding of all
departmental legislation and prescripts. Knowledge and understanding of
Public Service Prescripts and Legislations. A valid drivers’ license is an added
advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Financial Management.
Honesty and Integrity. Manpower forecasting and planning. Project
Management. Decision Making. Communication. Influencing and Networking.
Business report writing. Research Methodology. Interpersonal relations.
Problem Solving and Conflict Management. Presentation skills. Planning and
Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills. Negotiation skills.
Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Operational Management: Amendments and Rectifications Unit.
Manage and oversee operations within the Amendments and Rectifications
Unit to ensure the accuracy, integrity, and reliability of the National Population
Register (NPR). Ensure the effective administration of all matters relating to
the amendment and rectification of personal particulars. Coordinate and
manage service delivery between front-office and back-office environments.
Manage and implement document management processes, systems, and
policies in an effective and efficient manner. Facilitate digital transformation
initiatives and support the development of technical expertise within the unit.
Provide expert advice and guidance on amendment and rectification matters.
Manage and oversee projects related to document management and
rectification services. Establish and maintain productive relationships with
internal and external stakeholders. Monitor and report on progress against
approved operational plans. Escalate all irregularities and suspected
fraudulent activities to management or Counter Corruption and Security in
accordance with prescribed procedures. Policy, Procedures, and Governance.
Stakeholder Engagement and Intergovernmental Relations. Risk, Compliance,
and Quality Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr J Modipa, Tel No: 012 406 4243
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/42 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BIRTHS AND DEATHS REF NO: HRMC 11/26/2
Sub- Directorate: Births and Deaths
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12). (An all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management,
Public Administration, Operations Management or Customer Services
Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience
in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level is required. Knowledge and
understanding of all departmental legislation and prescripts. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Prescripts and Legislations. A valid drivers’
license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Manpower forecasting and
planning. Project Management. Decision Making. Communication. Influencing
and Networking. Business report writing. Research Methodology. Interpersonal
relations. Problem Solving and Conflict Management. Presentation skills.
Planning and Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills.
Negotiation skills. Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Operations Management: Births and Death Registration
Processes. Facilitate and oversee the processing of birth and death registration
applications across all service delivery platforms. Coordinate and ensure that
all registration processes comply with approved birth and death frameworks,
41
service standards, and operational procedures. Ensure the complete and
accurate capturing of records, including the identification and resolution of
empty, incomplete, or inconsistent fields originating from all service delivery
platforms. Coordinate and oversee the late registration of births and deaths,
ensuring strict adherence to legislative, regulatory, and procedural
requirements. Manage processes relating to birth registration status, including
the pre-modification and modification of birth registration records, in
accordance with prescribed standards. Coordinate and oversee automated
systems and digital platforms, including Command Centre operations, to
support efficient service delivery, system integrity, and data quality. Manage
and oversee projects related to document management and rectification
services. Ensure effective and efficient processing of designation of Funeral
Undertakers. Develop and maintain an accurate database for designated
Funeral Undertakers. Facilitate digital transformation initiatives and support the
development of technical expertise within the unit. Escalate all irregularities
and suspected fraudulent activities to management or Counter Corruption and
Security in accordance with prescribed procedures. Policy, Procedures, and
Governance. Stakeholder Engagement and Intergovernmental Relations. Risk,
Compliance, and Quality Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr J Modipa, Tel No: 012 406 4243
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/43 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LINDELA HOLDING FACILITY REF NO: HRMC
11/26/3
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
Branch: Immigration Services, Directorate: Deportation.
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12). (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Security (Policing and Defence
Studies), Public Management, Public Administration or International Relations
at NQF level 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years' experience in an
Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in an operations management
(Joint Operations) or Law Enforcement (SAPS / Defence / Immigration)
environment is required. Experience in analysis and interpretation of
operational dynamics in the area of deportations. Knowledge of the Refugees
Act. Knowledge of the Immigration Act. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution. Knowledge and understanding of methods, practices, regulations
and acts applicable to administrative support services. A valid drivers’ license.
Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Leadership skills. Ability to prepare reports and conduct
presentations. Financial Management. Customer focus. Knowledge
management. Program and project management. Change management.
Influencing and Networking. Problem Solving. Proven verbal and written
communication skills. Presentation Skills. Sound Analytical Skills. Excellent
interpersonal skills. Ability to effectively develop unit work program. Ability to
produce high quality work under pressure.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage effective deportation operations in the department.
Coordinate the transfer of illegal foreigners to Lindela Holding Facility. Ensure
adherence to policy and legislation regarding immigration matters. Ensure
documentation management of the department and tracking the arrival of
deported illegal foreigners. Ensure effective screening and fingerprinting of
illegal foreigners at the holding facility. Coordinate information and monitor
statistics with regards to illegal foreigners held at Lindela Holding Facility.
Manage the Lindela Holding Facility operations. Oversee the provision of
humane accommodation by providing adequate space and catering services.
Manage the implementation of hygiene and ensure that illegal foreigners keep
his or her person, clothing, bedding and cell clean and tidy at the holding facility.
Oversee the provision of humane accommodation by providing adequate
42
space and catering services. Manage the implementation of hygiene and
ensure that illegal foreigners keep his or her person, clothing, bedding and cell
clean and tidy at the holding facility. Implement security measures to ensure a
secure and humane environment for the illegal foreigners at the holding facility.
Ensure compliance with policies, procedures, and prescripts. Determine
appropriate resources to achieve objectives. Monitor progress on execution of
operational plans. Ensure compliance with all audit requirements, quickly and
risk management frameworks, standards and procedures. Monitor and ensure
compliance with legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Plan
the production of annual reports in line with corporate strategy. Ensure
compliance to stakeholders within and external to the organization to ensure
accurate implementation. Implement compliance with all duties of the unit in
line with the applicable legislative framework. Establish and implement a
quality control, norms and standards framework. Participate in the
development of Standard Operating Procedure in the unit. Interpret and
implement Department circulars, policy and other communications that impact
on the operation of the s unit. Implement compliance in line with all relevant
Framework. Monitor and report on the utilization of equipment. Co-ordinate
memorandum of understanding, service level agreements and expenditure
review. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Enhance and maintain
employee motivation and cultivate a culture of performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms B Kabinde, Tel No: (012) 406 4239
APPLICATIONS Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
imsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/44 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MARRIAGES REF NO: HRMC 11/26/4
Sub-Directorate: Marriages
SALARY : R1 059 105 - R1 247 574 per annum (Level 12). (An all-inclusive salary
package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane,
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management,
Public Administration, Operations Management or Customer Services
Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience
in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level is required. Knowledge and
understanding of all departmental legislation and prescripts. Knowledge and
understanding of Public Service Prescripts and Legislations. A valid drivers’
license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
Required skills and competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Manpower forecasting and
planning. Project Management. Decision Making. Communication. Influencing
and Networking. Business report writing. Research Methodology. Interpersonal
relations. Problem Solving and Conflict Management. Presentation skills.
Planning and Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills.
Negotiation skills. Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Ensure the effective management of marriage records, including
the secure capture, storage, retrieval, and preservation of marriage data.
Coordinate and ensure that all marriage-related processes comply with
approved legislative frameworks, service standards, and operational
procedures. Ensure the complete and accurate capturing of marriage records,
including the identification and resolution of empty, incomplete, or inconsistent
data fields originating from local offices and service points. Coordinate and
oversee the registration and issuance of marriage certificates in accordance
with prescribed requirements. Manage processes relating to marriage
registration status, including the pre-modification and modification of marriage
registration records. Ensure the facilitation of alteration of sex/gender marker
applications linked to marriage records, in accordance with applicable
legislation and policy. Coordinate and oversee automated systems and digital
platforms, including Command Centre operations, to support efficient service
delivery and data integrity. Coordinate and manage the confirmation,
identification, and verification of biometric data associated with marriage
registrations. Manage and oversee projects related to document management
and rectification services within the Marriage Unit. Ensure the effective and
efficient processing of applications for the designation of Marriage Officers.
43
Develop, maintain, and regularly update an accurate and secure database of
designated Marriage Officers. Oversee the accurate updating of Marital Status.
Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to management
or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with prescribed procedures
Policy, Procedures, and Governance. Stakeholder Engagement and
Intergovernmental Relations. Risk, Compliance, and Quality Assurance.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr W Mamphoke, Tel No: 012 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/45 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET CONTROL REF NO: HRMC 11/26/5
Directorate: Fleet and Asset Management
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Supply Chain Management, Financial
Accounting, Accounting Science, Financial Management, Auditing or Cost and
Management Accounting at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’
experience as an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in an Asset
Management environment is required. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations Act. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of the South African Constitution. Understanding of departmental
legislation as well as Human Resources legislation and prescripts. Knowledge
of the National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of modified cash system
(MCS). Knowledge of BAS, LOGIS AND BAUD systems. Knowledge of the
Supply Chain Management practices. Knowledge of Asset Management
Framework. Knowledge of the Standard Chart of Accounts (SCoA). A valid
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Capability and leadership. Service
Delivery Innovation. Stakeholder relations and customer focus. People
Management and Empowerment. Financial risk management. Asset Control
Management. Honesty and Integrity. Expenditure Management and
Administration. Programme and Project Management. Decision Making.
Communication skill. Budget administration. Business report writing. Initiating
action. Asset verification. Problem Solving and Analysis. Negotiation skills.
Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skill. Reconciliation skills
Interpersonal skill. Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate effective asset management in the Department.
Coordinate and develop the asset and acquisition plans and strategies.
Coordinate, monitor and maintain the asset register integrity. Submit monthly
reconciliation of BAS. Update the current year addition register and ensure
completeness and accuracy on the LOGIS, BAS and FA System. Coordinate
and monitor the implementation of physical verification of assets in
Department. Coordinate and monitor the movement of assets, update the
movement, condition, location of moveable assets in the register. Investigate
instances of not verified assets lost, stolen or damaged assets and report them
to the Loss Control Committee for recovery. Coordinate and monitor recording
of write-offs, disposals and asset losses. Coordinate disposals of assets
including recording of income and related administration. Monitor and update
moveable lease register. Prepare the lease commitment and disclosure note.
Coordinate and establish norms, standards and processes for assets in the
Department. Manage successful system and process enhancements, updates
and amendments within the unit. Generate Return on Investment and other
prescribed and delegated reports for National Treasury and Business Owners.
Coordinate effective operations within the fixed asset management unit.
Develop and implementation of Policy and Procedure, Directive Acts and
Regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working relationship with
the department and relevant stakeholders. Implement effective risk and
compliance in line with the relevant legislative prescripts. Ensure effective and
efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within the
Unit Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory
requirements.
44
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Mnisi, Tel No: 012 406 4238
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
financerecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/46 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/6
Directorate: Operational Support (Civic Services)
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane,
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Business Management, Public Management
or Social Sciences at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’
experience in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in a Business
Intelligence (BI) environment is required. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution. Knowledge of Immigration Act, Refugee Act and Citizenship Act.
Sound knowledge and understanding of the Citizenship Act and Identification
Act. Knowledge and understanding of Civic Services Legislations and
Prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of IT
governance frameworks (COBIT, ITIL, ISO/ IEC 20000) – essential for
managing IT services delivery, compliance and aligning IT services with
organisational objectives. Knowledge of Service Model, Operating Model,
Revenue Model and Delivery Model Design. Knowledge of Public Finance Act
(PFMA) and National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of International
Immigration Practices. Knowledge of Government Programme of Action and
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). A valid drivers’ license is an
added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required
skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Service Delivery
Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and
Empowerment. Financial reporting. Honesty and Integrity. Change
management. Programme and Project Management. Decision Making.
Communication skill. Knowledge management. Business continuity planning.
Financial Risk Management. Interpersonal skills. Problem Solving and Conflict
Management. Performance monitoring systems. Compliance management.
Information security risk principles. Presentation skills. Planning and
Organising Skill. Strong analytical skills. Facilitation skills. Negotiation skills.
Computer Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage the coordination operations of Business Intelligence
(BI) for the Branch. Manage the collection, review and validation of customer
data and conduct audits. Manage the monitoring of analytics and metrics
results and implement of new data analysis methodologies. Manage the
reviewing of customer files to ensure integrity of data collection and utilization.
Manage and analyses the department process and report on analytics and
financials for a variety of projects. Ensure the interaction with various data
sources across the organization for tactical conclusions. Manage the auditing
of data quality and make recommendations for users. Facilitate integrate and
eradicate intuitions from large, disperse datasets and translate them into clear,
precise business conclusions. Facilitate and conduct risk analysis,
assessments and collect intelligence data. Ensure sustainable Business
intelligence solutions, automation and data visualization. Manage the
translation of business requirements into technological specifications. Manage
the coordination, integration, and extraction of data from data depositories
across the organization. Manage the designing of codes for specifications of
physical, logical, and end user data, dashboards, and tools. Ensure the
implementation of data generator and ensure compliance to all enterprise data
model according to data standards. Provide expert advice on developing and
aligning branch strategies with DHA’s overall strategic position. Assist in
creating long-, medium-, and short-term business strategies and performance
plans. Review government strategies and directives to assess impact on
branch operations. Consolidate inputs from directorates for strategic planning
and ensure quality control. Develop and implementation of policies and
procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a
good working relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders.
Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative
prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
45
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr W Mamphoke, Tel No: 012 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/47 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DETECTION, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/7
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Forensic Audit, Internal Audit, Law or Data
Analytics at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an
Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in an Investigations environment,
fraud detection, auditing, data analysis or anti-corruption environment is
required. Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts.
Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the
GITO Framework, standard and guidelines. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of E-Government Imperatives. Knowledge of State Information
Technology Act (SITA). Knowledge of Project Management processes and
procedures. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Financial
management. Knowledge management. Honesty and Integrity. Change
management. Programme and Project Management. Decision Making.
Communication skill. Knowledge management. High ethical standards and
integrity. Analytical and critical thinking. Attention to detail. Confidentiality and
discretion. Strong communication and reporting-writing skills. Ability to work
independently and under pressure. Business report writing. Influencing and
networking. Problem Solving and Analysis. Communication. Conflict
Management and Negotiation skills. Critical thinking. Advanced MS excel skills.
Analytical capabilities to interpret fraud data and identify corruption trends.
Ability to integrate data from multiple sources and map end to end processes.
Data analysis and trend identification. Expertise in data visualisation and
dashboarding. Risk analysis and profiling. Knowledge of government systems
and processes. Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skills.
Interpersonal skills. Technical skills. Document management skills. Excellent
communication and stakeholder engagement. Computer Literacy skills.
Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage and ensure detection and analysis of corruption
vulnerabilities and irregularities within DHA business processes. Collect,
cleanse and analyse data from multiple systems including sourcing of
information from investigated cases to strengthen business process
evaluations. Analyse business processes, procedures and systems to identify
vulnerabilities, gaps and control weaknesses that may enable fraud and
corruption. Conduct data-driven detection reviews to identify anomalies,
unusual trends, deviations from the norm including non-compliance with
policies and legislation. Contribute and manage the development and updating
of DHA fraud and corruption legislative frameworks. Contribute and manage
the development and updating of the DHA fraud and corruption risk profile.
Analyze trends and identify various modus operandi to identify red flags
relating to business processes. Conduct and participate in business process
reviews. Map end to end processes to identify risk areas. Assess adequacy
and the effectiveness of controls. Develop risk indicators and detection models.
Produce analytical reports, dashboards and visualisations. Support
investigative units with evidence-based detection insights. Benchmark
processes against best practices. Compile evidence-based reports with
practical recommendations. Develop risk mitigation strategies. Contribute to
audit and management reports. Maintain records of detection activities.
Manage the collaboration and coordination of detection support to
Investigation, Vetting and Analysis units. Ensure continuous internal and
external stakeholder engagements and collaborations. Ensure effective risk
and compliance with regulatory requirements. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
46
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr B Mathatho, Tel No: 012 406 4250
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/48 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INVESTIGATIONS REF NO: HRMC 11/26/8
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Criminal Justice, Policing, Forensics,
Public Management or Public Administration at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior Management) level
in an Investigations environment is required. Knowledge of public security,
Including the Minimum Information Security Standards Act (MISS). Knowledge
of investigation methodology. Knowledge of asset protection operations.
Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the
Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the GITO Framework,
standard and guidelines. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of
E-Government Imperatives. Knowledge of State Information Technology Act
(SITA). Knowledge of Project Management processes and procedures. A valid
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People
Management and Empowerment. Financial management. Knowledge
management. Honesty and Integrity. Change management. Programme and
Project Management. Decision Making. Communication skill. Knowledge
management. Business report writing. Influencing and networking. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Communication. Negotiation skills Dealing with
Pressures and Setbacks. Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skill.
Interpersonal skill. Technical skills: Commercial Skills. Document management
skills. Excellent communication and stakeholder engagement. Computer
Literacy Skill. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate investigations operation and implementation
according to the required security standards. Coordinate and implement of
various investigations functions and services. Coordinate information and
monitor statistics with regards to investigations. Coordinate and support all
aspects of the investigation to practice and illegal practice complaints (and
enquiries). Undertake order risk assessments in individual cases and monitor
the conditions of practice. Coordinate and monitor investigations functions and
proactively report and implement safety measures. Review quality
management reports and take corrective action where required. Conduct
investigations often oversee financial fraud investigations. Coordinate and
monitor quality and accuracy of output delivery by implementing periodic
sampling and other tools. Coordinate the development of a security
investigations security strategy for the department. Coordinate and implement
the investigation processes of special cases. Liaise with Office of the Auditor
General, SAPS, NIA and SITA on finance investigations. Coordinate and
ensure service delivery improvements within unit. Establish, maintain and
ensure a good working relationship with the department and relevant
stakeholders. Ensure effective risk and compliance management within the
external liaison unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Raziya, Tel No: 012 406 4155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/49 : SENIOR ANALYST REF NO: HRMC 11/26/9
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
47
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Computer Science, Data Science, BSc
Information Technology, or Statistics (Delete) at NQF 6 as recognized by
SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director (Junior
Management) level in IT audit, Forensic audit, data analysis using Power
BI/SQL/Arbutus and /or other related analytical tools preferably within fraud,
corruption, risk, audit or law enforcement environment is required. Experience
working with large datasets and case-based information. Knowledge of the
Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of the GITO
Frameworks, standards and guidelines. Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act.
Knowledge of E-Government Imperatives. Knowledge of State Information
Technology Act (SITA). Knowledge of Project Management processes and
procedures. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Decision making. Client orientation and customer
focus. Financial Management. Knowledge management. Program and project
management. Change management. High ethical standards and integrity.
Analytical and critical thinking. Attention to detail. Confidentiality. and
discretion. Strong communication and report-writing skills. Ability to work
independently and under pressure. Business Report Writing. Problem Solving
and Analysis. Influencing and Networking. Critical thinking. Advanced MS excel
skills. Analytical capabilities to interpret fraud data and identify corruption
trends. Ability to integrate data from multiple sources and ensure data quality.
Data analysis and interpretation. Statistical analysis and trend identification.
Expertise in data visualisation and dashboarding. Risk analysis and profiling.
Knowledge of government systems and processes. Presentation skills.
Problem solving and analysis. Business report writing. Interpersonal skills.
Technical skills. Computer literacy. Document management skills. Excellent
communication and stakeholder engagement.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate and manage the collection, analysis and
interpretation of information and statistical data. Collect, collate, clean, and
manage fraud and corruption data from multiple sources, including case
management systems, tip-off platforms, audits, and operational databases.
Ensure data integrity, accuracy, and confidentiality in line with departmental
policies and legislation. Maintain structured datasets to support analysis,
reporting, and investigations. Analyse reported allegations to identify trends,
patterns, and anomalies related to fraud and corruption. Conduct risk profiling
of offices, processes, systems, and officials. Identify repeat incidents, high-risk
areas, and emerging modus operandi. Perform root cause analysis to
determine systemic weaknesses and control failures. Develop and maintain
dashboards, statistical reports, and visualization for management, EXCO, and
oversight bodies. Prepare quarterly, annual, and ad-hoc analytical and trend
analysis reports in support of performance reporting, audit engagements, risk
management and strategic planning. Compile reports and presentations with
findings and recommendations on identified corruption patterns to
stakeholders. Ensure alignment of data outputs with performance indicators
and audit methodologies. Develop and update the risk profile on existing
modus operandi to proactively identify irregularities. Pro-actively identify
suspicious officials and high-risk occupational groups. Manage the
collaboration and coordination of analytical support to Investigation, Vetting
and Prevention units. Ensure continuous internal and external stakeholder
engagements and collaborations. Ensure effective risk and compliance with
regulatory requirements. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best
practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Raziya, Tel No: 012 406 4155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/50 : SPECIALIST DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: HRMC 11/26/10 (2
POSTS)
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
Chief Directorate: Application Management
48
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Computer Science or Information Technology
at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in
DB2 database administration. Experience in an Assistant Director (Junior
Management) level Technician in database administration is required.
Functional Experience in administering Microsoft SQL database, DB2 and
Oracle database. Experience in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL
Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).
Experience in ETL (Extra-Transform-Load) development / data integration.
Experience in SQL Server Clustering and HA technologies including mirroring,
log shipping, failover cluster and various replication technologies would be an
advantage. Experience participating in a team that is using Agile
methodologies and tools. Sound understanding of application development,
maintenance and support. Sound knowledge and application of the GITO
Requirements and Frameworks. Knowledge of the E government policy
framework consultation paper developed by GITO. Sound knowledge of the
National Strategic Intelligence Act. Knowledge of other database like DB2,
MySQL and Oracle. Sound knowledge of programming languages and
databases. Understanding of project management processes. A valid drivers’
license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours.
On-call may be required. Required skills and competencies: Capability and
Leadership. Client orientation. Accountability. Sound persuading and
influencing. People Management. Strong planning and organising. Business
Continuity. Excellent communication skills including communicating technical
issues to non-technical audiences. Project Management. Problem solving and
Analysis. Service delivery innovation. Ability to translate technology language
into English. Expenditure Management. Ability to work independently and
collaboratively in a team environment. Conflict Management and resolution.
Ability to meet deadlines.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate general Database Analysis in the Department.
Coordinate database analysis and implementation thereof. Coordinate and
monitor the performance tuning, capacity planning, monitoring critical events
and documentation. Create detailed documentation including diagrams of
database infrastructure. Create complex query definitions that allow adequate
data flow and criticality in line with the relevant business requirements.
Coordinate and communicate with all stakeholders (internal teams and clients)
on matters related to Databases. Design and develop capacity planning of
database infrastructure in conjunction with the PMO and Strategic IS Alignment
units. Coordinate and transfer of data from the existing system to the new
platform during technology refresh. Plan and monitor database infrastructure
for the DHA’s dashboard needs. Coordinate and monitor the database
administration processes and procedures. Coordinate, build and supports
enterprise-wide databases. Coordinate and execute databases for new
applications throughout the Department. Ensure effective Governance and
Compliance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices
and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms T Rakgoale, Tel No: 012 406 2808
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/51 : SPECIALIST: ENTERPRISE ARCHITECT REF NO: HRMC 11/26/11 (2
POSITIONS)
Directorate: Enterprise Architecture
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Computer Science,
Computer Engineering, Information Communication Technology or Information
Systems at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ practical
experience at Assistant Director / Specialist level in Enterprise Architecture,
Solution Architecture or Systems Architecture, with demonstrated hands-on
involvement in the design and implementation of architecture solutions.
Knowledge and understanding of relevant Legislation, Policies and prescripts
49
governing public administration and information systems. Knowledge of the
following Acts and frameworks: Intelligence Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Police
Act, Anti-Corruption Legislation, Labour Relations Act (LRA), Basic Conditions
of Employment Act (BCEA), Public Service Act (PSA), Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations and National Strategic
Intelligence Act. Knowledge of policy development processes and government
protocol. Knowledge of different development and database tools, techniques
and environments to develop and deliver quality applications and
documentations. Knowledge in Enterprise Architecture and IS Governance
environment. Knowledge of the GITO Frameworks and policies. Knowledge of
the State Information Technology Agency (SITA) Act 88 of 1998. Knowledge of
Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS) and Minimum Interoperability
Standard (MIOS). Knowledge of Government Wide Enterprise Architecture
Framework (GWEAF). Knowledge of the Open Group Architecture Framework
(TOGAF). Knowledge of Corporate Governance of ICT (CGICT) Policy
Framework. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to
travel and work extended hours. On-call may be required. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership Execution. Business
Continuity. Time Management. Conflict Management and Resolution. Service
Delivery Innovation. People Management. Project Management. Expenditure
Management. Problem solving and Analysis. Change Management and
Adaptability. Business Analysis. Data analysis. Business Report Writing.
Stakeholder Relations and Customer Focus. Influencing and Networking.
Accountability. Time Management. Critical Thinking. Ability to translate
Technical Language into English. Attention to detail. Presentation skills.
Planning and Organising skills. Interpersonal skill. Computer literacy. Decision
making. Communication skill. Enterprise architectural skills. Research skills.
Facilitation skills. Modelling skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Implement and Maintain Enterprise Architecture. Implement
approved Enterprise Architecture across all architecture domains (Business,
Information, Application, Technology and Security). Develop, update and
maintain current-state, target-state and transition architectures. Produce and
maintain architecture diagrams, models, standards and artefacts in line with
GWEAF and TOGAF. Execute architecture gap analyses and implement
approved remediation actions. Ensure practical application of Enterprise
Architecture principles in all ICT solutions and systems. Implement architecture
standards to reduce duplication, improve reuse and promote system
interoperability. Maintain an enterprise architecture repository and ensure
artefacts are current and accurate. Embed Enterprise Architecture into the
System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by actively participating in solution
design, build, testing and deployment phases to ensure architecture
compliance from initiation to implementation. Review, approve and enforce
solution and system architecture designs prior to implementation and provide
corrective guidance where deviations from approved architecture standards
are identified. Support and guide project and technical teams during
implementation by resolving architecture-related technical issues and ensuring
alignment with approved integration, security and technology standards.
Monitor implemented systems post-deployment to assess architecture
effectiveness, identify improvement opportunities and implement corrective or
optimisation actions where required. Conduct Architecture Compliance and
Solution Implementation Support. Ensure operational efficient and service
delivery improvement in the Department. Establish, maintain and ensure a
good working relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders.
Implement effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative
prescripts. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms T Rakgoale, Tel No: 012 406 2808
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/52 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY SYSTEMS, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/12
(This is a re-advertisement, Candidates who have previously applied, and are
still interested, are kindly requested to re-apply).
Branch: Counter Corruption and Security Services
50
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Electronic and Computer Engineering,
Electrical and Electronics Engineering or Electrical Engineering at NQF level 6
as recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience in an Assistant Director
(Junior Management) level in an electronic security systems environment is
required. Knowledge and understanding of applying GITO requirements and
Frameworks. Knowledge of the e-Governance Policy Framework consultation
paper developed by GITO. Knowledge of the State Information Technology
Agency Act, 88 of 1998 and Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS)
and Minimum Physical Security Standard (MPSS). Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
Knowledge of electronic system security deployment and maintenance (e.g
hubs and monitors). A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work
extended hours. Management competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership. People Management and empowerment. Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Financial Management.
Program and project management. Excellent written and verbal
communication skills. Sound decision-making and change management skills.
Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as enabling
technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively managing
the required work. Support digital transformation. Computer literacy. Patriotic,
Honesty, Integrity and Accountability. Required skills and competencies:
Problem solving and analysis. Report writing and presentation skills.
Negotiation skills. Information Infrastructure Architecture. Data management
systems. Data streamlining and management. Data systems evaluation. Data
design and analysis.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Identify most suitable security system technology in support of
the security objectives. Ensure that servers and IT related equipment and
hardware as tools of trade within the Department, are properly protected.
Ensure the introduction of Environmental Monitoring Systems (EMS) in all DHA
server rooms. Effective management and maintenance of security technology
and systems. Provide advice and guidance on security technology and
systems. Ensure that part of the risk analysis in DHA, facilities include the
server room areas. Ensure biometric access in all DHA server rooms, cash
offices, control rooms (where applicable) and high-risk areas such as face
value storerooms. Repair, prepare program and maintain security systems in
the Department, e.g. CCTV. Assemble electronic and security equipment
devices which may include access control and Close Circuit Television (CCTV)
for effective monitoring of threats and intrusions. Facilitate stakeholder
engagement and collaboration and represent the Directorate at various forums.
Ensure the effective implementation of operational objectives and innovations
(digital transformation, records- and document management solutions, process
improvements and information management and analysis), to enhance service
delivery. Implement governance processes, frameworks and procedures.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr R Mohlaka, Tel No: 012 406 4246
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/53 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATION REF NO:
HRMC 11/26/13
Sub- Directorate: Amendments and Rectifications
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Management, Administration or Business Management at NQF 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience as an SAO (Junior level) is
required. Knowledge of the South African Citizenship Act, 1995. Extensive
51
knowledge of the South African Passport and Travel Documents Acts, 1994.
Understanding of the Immigration Act and Refugee Act. Knowledge of
migration patterns and population movement within South Africa.
Understanding of the departmental legislation and Human Resources
prescripts, LRA, BCEA. Knowledge of the South African Constitution and
Public Service Regulations Act. Comprehensive understanding of Legislation,
Policies and Prescripts governing Public Administration. Knowledge of Policy
Development and Government Protocol. A valid drivers’ license is an added
advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership Execution. Strategic
Planning and Strategic Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Programme and Project
Management. Change Management. Communication. Knowledge
Management. Problem Solving and Analysis. Business Report Writing.
Influencing and Networking. Planning and Organising. Accountability. Data
Analysis. Policy Analysis and Interpretation. Process Analysis and
Improvement. Corruption Measures and Principles. Presentation skills.
Interpersonal skill. Communication skill. Planning and Organising skill.
Computer literacy skill. Decision making skill.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate and oversee the processing of applications for the
amendment and rectification of personal particulars recorded on the NPR.
Ensure all amendment and rectification processes comply with legislative
prescripts, regulations, and DHA policies. Implement and monitor quality
assurance and verification controls to prevent errors, duplications, and irregular
amendments. Coordinate service delivery between front-office and back-office
environments to ensure timely and accurate finalisation of cases. Manage and
resolve complex, sensitive, or escalated amendment and rectification cases.
Oversee the utilisation of automated systems and digital platforms to support
data integrity and efficient processing. Maintain accurate records, dashboards,
and performance reports on amendment and rectification transactions.
Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities to management
or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with prescribed procedures.
Stakeholder Engagement and Intergovernmental Coordination. Policy
Development, Governance, and Operational Oversight. Risk Management,
Compliance, and Quality Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola, Tel No: 012 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/54 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DUPLICATES, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/14
Directorate: Application Processing
SALARY : R582 444 - R686 091 per annum (Level 10). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Public
Management, Administration or Business Management, at NQF 6 as
recognized by SAQA. Three (3) Years’ supervisory experience is required.
Extensive knowledge of the Identification Act, South African Citizenship Act,
1995. Extensive knowledge of the South African Passport and Travel
Documents Act, 1994. Understanding of the Immigration Act and Refugee Act.
Knowledge of migration patterns and population movement within South Africa.
Understanding of departmental legislation and Human Resources prescripts,
LRA, BCEA. Knowledge of the South African Constitution and Public Service
Regulations Act. Comprehensive understanding of legislation, policies, and
prescripts governing public administration. Understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of
policy development and government protocol. A valid drivers’ license is an
added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required
skills and competencies: Management Capability and Leadership Execution.
Planning and Operations Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Client
Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and Empowerment.
Financial Management. Honesty and Integrity. Programme and Project
52
Management. Change Management. Communication. Knowledge
Management. Problem Solving and Analysis. Business Report Writing.
Influencing and Networking. Planning and Organising. Accountability. Data
Analysis. Policy Analysis and Interpretation. Process Analysis and
Improvement. Attention to Detail. Conflict Resolution and Management.
Corruption Measures and Principles. Presentation skills. Interpersonal skills.
Communication skills. Planning and Organising skills. Computer and digital
literacy skills. Decision Making skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Administer the allocation / cancellation / deletion and
reactivation of Identity Numbers in the National Population Register. Supervise
the investigation and approval of duplicate cases. Monitor the laying of the file
is correct, ensure that the correct records are attached. Quality check and
ensure correctness of submitted forms for amendment of information on the
NPR. Verify the correctness of information on the confirmation letter with the
information on NPR as well as signing the letters as on behalf (pp) of DG.
Monitor records/documentation according to DHA policies and requirements.
Adhere to business process management when executing daily operations on
the unit. Build and maintain relationship with various stakeholders (Internal and
External). Develop, monitor and implementation of policy and procedures,
directives, acts and regulations. Ensure effective risk and compliance
management. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices
and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms R Masemola, Tel No: 012 406 4156
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/55 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: AUDIT OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT, REF NO:
HRMC 11/26/15
Chief Directorate: Internal Audit
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 9) (Basic Salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Internal Audit, Accounting or Commerce at
NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. Three (3) years of internal audit
experience in operational coordination in the internal auditing environment is
required. Knowledge of the Protection of information Act 84 of 1982 and the
Promotion of Access to information Act 2 of 2000 and Minimum Information
Security Standards. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act.
Knowledge of International Internal Audit Standards. Knowledge of the South
African Constitution. Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and
National Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of IIA Standards and Professional
Standards for the Practice of Internal Auditing. Knowledge of King IV report and
governance principles. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage.
Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. Financial Administration. Business Report Writing. Honesty and
Integrity. Project Management. Business Continuity. Decision Making.
Attention to detail. Influencing and networking. Conflict management and
resolution. Confidentiality. Ability to work independently and under pressure,
managing multiple cases and deadlines. Presentation skills Communication
skills. Planning and Organising skills. Computer literacy Planning and
Organising skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Maintain the annual audit schedule/coverage tracker and update
milestone (planning, fieldwork, reporting, closure). Provide professional,
technical, and methodological guidance to Internal Audit stuff to ensure uniform
application of Global Internal Audit Standards, PFMA, Treasury Regulations
and relevant prescripts. Provide professional support to Audit Committee to
ensure development of the annual program, annual declarations, payment of
AC and Facilitation of AC evaluations. Communicate changes in internal audit
standards, legislation, and best practices to internal stakeholders. Ensure all
operational activities align with the Internal Audit methodology, departmental
SOPs, and IIA Standards. Standards. Apply checklists to verify compliance at
each stage of the engagement Facilitate the annually review, update, and
53
maintain the Internal Audit Charter, Audit Committee Charter, Internal Audit
Methodology, and Combined Assurance Framework. Benchmark internal audit
practices against leading public and private sector best practices. Identify and
introduce emerging trends, innovative audit techniques, and technology-
enabled audit approaches. Coordinate and facilitate the activities of the
Combined Assurance Forum. Promote collaboration, information sharing, and
alignment among internal and external assurance providers. Prepare meeting
packs, agendas, and attendance registers for the Chief Directorate: Internal
Audit Management, Combined Assurance Forum and Audit Committee
meetings. Capture key discussion points, agreements, and action items.
Contribute to the preparation of the Internal Audit Services Business Plan and
annual operational plans. Coordinate and compile quarterly performance
reports in line with departmental and Treasury reporting requirements. Ensure
that all engagement files are maintained (electronic and physical) with proper
indexing and referencing. Prepare engagement files for internal QA review and
external quality assessments. Implement Public Service governance
processes, framework and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Support the
development of policy development by providing inputs and ensure the
effective implementation thereof. Review and ensure effective workflow and
capacity planning. Ensure the effective and uniform implementation of
Standard Operating Procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulation, DHA policies and procedures within the directorate.
Ensure compliance with all audit requirements within the directorate. Monitor
quality, risk, standards as in required. Report on all risk and financial indicators
including e.g. financial losses, overpayment, etc. according to required format.
Keep up to date with regulatory requirements Interpret and implement all
organisational circulars, policy and other communications that impact on the
operation of the unit. Develop an activity plan for the unit and ensure effective
prioritisation and resource planning. Administer the implementation of
compliant performance management. Ensure compliance against finance,
asset management, supply chain and procurement. regulations and policy
requirements. Administer projects in line with the allocated targets of the unit.
Identify and monitor risks in the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms V Motshegoe, Tel No: 012 406 4252
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/56 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DIGITAL MEDIA, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/16
Chief Directorate: Communication Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 9). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Digital Marketing, Public Relations or
Communication and Web Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA.
Three (3) Years’ experience at a SAO (Junior) level in Digital Media or Social
Media Management is required. Knowledge of web and social media
management is a must. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
Regulatory Framework. Knowledge and understanding of all Departmental
Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of communication strategies and
processes. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel
and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. Knowledge management.
Decision Making. Communication (written and verbal). Program and project
management. Problem solving and analysis. Business report writing.
Influencing and networking. Presentation skills. Planning and organizing Skills.
Interpersonal skills. Technical Skills: Commercial Skills. Computer literacy.
Negotiation Skills
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate and maintain the intranet, website and social media
platforms for the department. Assume full editorial management responsibility
for all digital platforms of the department. Management of information via the
intranet, website and social media platforms. Ensuring effective distribution of
updated information, programmes and campaigns via all digital platforms to
ensure timely news and internal information sharing. Contribute to the
formulation and implementation of process of internal communication or staff
54
information network including communication standards, processes and
procedures. Maintain superior editorial standards across all departmental
digital publications. Develop and implement mechanisms to encourage staff
participation and involvement in DHA matters and events. Promote effective
use of agreed communication channels, standards, processes and procedures
throughout the department. Development and implementation of policy and
procedure, directive acts and regulations. Implementation of policies,
procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Ensure the implementation of
effective risk and compliance management. Ensure effective and efficient
management of human, physical and financial resources within the Unit. Coach
and guide staff on best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr B Mathatho, Tel No: 012 406 4250
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
commsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/57 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXTERNAL LIAISON, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/17
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 9) (Basic Salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Criminal Justice, Forensics, Policing,
Public Management or Public Administration at NQF level 6 as recognised by
SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience at a supervisory level in an investigations
environment is required. Knowledge of Minimum Information Security
Standards. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Anti-
corruption Framework. Knowledge and experience of the Criminal Justice
System. Knowledge of Promotion Administration of Justice Act. Understanding
of the Departmental legislation as well as Human Resources Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of investigations principles and processes. Knowledge
of the planning, implementation and evaluation/monitoring of enforcement.
Knowledge of relevant South African legislation and corporate governance
principles. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. A valid drivers’
license. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer
Focus. People Management and Empowerment. Honesty and integrity.
Programme and Project Management. Business Continuity. Decision Making.
Influencing and networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and
improvement. Conflict resolution and management. Confidentiality. Ability to
work independently and under pressure, managing multiple cases and
deadlines. Presentation skills. Communication skills. Planning and Organising
skills. Computer literacy. Investigation skills. Capability and leadership skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Monitor the daily operations of all external reporting channels
(phone, email, web, post, etc.), ensuring accessibility, reliability, and anonymity
as guaranteed by policy and legislation (such as the Protected Disclosures Act
2000). Develop, document, and implement clear operating policies, standard
operating procedures (SOPs), and directives for the handling, assessment, and
investigation of all reported information. Ensure all reports are accurately
received, logged with case control numbers, and channelled to the appropriate
internal division (e.g., HR, Legal, Audit) for timely and objective investigation.
Facilitate and implement strict protocols to protect the identity of
whistleblowers, ensuring that any identifying information is removed from
reports while maintaining the substance of the report. Facilitate the
development, communicate, enforce related policies and procedures. Facilitate
the development, performance and delivery of the internal support to the unit,
to produce reliable and delivery solutions, to maximise performance and
profitability against pre-agreed targets. Conduct ongoing training and
awareness programmes for employees and management about the hotline,
disciplinary policies, and the code of conduct as required. Ensure business
transformation and partnership with various stakeholders. Compile tactical
plans aligned to business requirements. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders on matters related to the investigation. Benchmark with various
institutions for best practice. Coordinate, revisit, review and streamline all
processes to ensure accuracy and efficiency. Facilitate and implement
improvement of projects in the unit. Contributes towards the formulation of
investigation Framework, policies, processes and circulars. Enforce
55
compliance to regulations and policies guidelines in the department. Monitor
and maintain issues related to investigation practices and security breaches by
staff. Participate in the activities in relevant structures i.e. Investigations
Information Coordination Committee (IICC) and the South African Banking Risk
Information Centre (SABRIC). Report on all risk and financial indicators
including e.g. financial losses, overpayment, etc. according to required format.
Keep up to date with compliance and regulatory requirements and liaise with
all relevant stakeholders within and external to the Organisation to ensure
accurate implementation. Interpret and implement all organisational circulars,
policy and other communications that impact on the operation of the business
unit. Implement compliance with all duties of the employer in terms of the
applicable legislative framework falling within office duties. Develop the activity
plan for the unit and ensure effective prioritisation and resource planning.
Agree on the training and development needs of the unit. Implement effective
talent management processes within the unit (attraction, retention,
development). Administer the implementation of compliant performance
management. Ensure that employees are equipped with the required skills and
resources to perform optimally. Administer compliance of the unit against asset
management, supply chain and policy requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr R Mohlaka, Tel No: (012) 406 4246
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/58 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL HOTLINE, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/18
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 9) (Basic Salary)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Law, Policing, Forensic or Public
Administration at an NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA. Three (3) Years’
experience at a supervisory level in an Investigations environment is required.
Experience conducting investigations is required. Experience in coordination
information gathering processes. Knowledge of Minimum Information Security
Standards. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of Anti-
corruption Framework. Knowledge and experience of the Criminal Justice
System. Knowledge of Promotion Administration of Justice Act. Understanding
of the Departmental legislation as well as Human Resources Regulatory
Framework. Knowledge of investigations principles and processes. Knowledge
of the planning, implementation and evaluation/monitoring of enforcement.
Knowledge of relevant South African legislation and corporate governance
principles. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel
and work extended hours. Required skills and competencies: Service Delivery
Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People Management and
Empowerment. Financial Management. Honesty and integrity. Programme and
Project Management. Business Continuity. Decision Making. Influencing and
networking. Attention to detail. Process analysis and improvement. Conflict
resolution and management. Confidentiality. Ability to work independently and
under pressure, managing multiple cases and deadlines. Presentation Skill.
Communication Skill. Planning and Organising Skill. Computer literacy.
Investigation skills. Capability and leadership skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Monitor daily operations of the internal hotline(s),
which may include phone, email, and online reporting channels, ensuring
accessibility and efficiency Formalise and monitor the process for receiving,
recording, tracking, and documenting all reported issues and incidents,
ensuring consistency, confidentiality, and accuracy. Ensure compliance of
hotline management practices comply with South African labour legislation, the
Protected Disclosures Act, relevant Departmental policies, and governance
frameworks (e.g., King IV, PFMA in the Department). Facilitate and implement
robust safeguards to protect the anonymity and confidentiality of employees
who report misconduct and ensure they are protected from any form of
retaliation. Prepare detailed reports on findings, trends, and statistics for
executive management and the governing body and submit them to the
Supervisor (e.g., Board of Directors or Audit Committee) to identify systemic
issues and areas for improvement. Facilitate development, communication,
enforce related policies and procedures. Facilitate the development,
56
performance and delivery of internal support to the unit, to produce reliable
delivery solutions, to maximise performance and profitability against pre-
agreed targets. Conduct ongoing training and awareness programmes for
employees and management about the hotline, disciplinary policies, and the
code of conduct as required. Facilitate development, communication, enforce
related policies and procedures. Facilitate the development, performance and
delivery of internal support to the unit, to produce reliable delivery solutions, to
maximise performance and profitability against pre-agreed targets. Conduct
ongoing training and awareness programmes for employees and management
about the hotline, disciplinary policies, and the code of conduct as required.
Ensure business transformation and partnership with various stakeholders.
Compile tactical plans aligned to business requirements. Liaise with internal
and external stakeholders on matters related to the investigation. Benchmark
with various institutions for best practice. Coordinate, revisit, review and
streamline all processes to ensure accuracy and efficiency. Ensure effective
risk and compliance management. Report on all risk and financial indicators
including e.g. financial losses, over payments, etc. according to required
formats. Monitor and ensure compliance with legislation, regulations, DHA
policies and procedures within the directorate. Ensure compliance with all audit
requirements within the directorate. Implement Public Service governance
processes, framework and procedures. Monitor and ensure compliance with
legislation, regulations and DHA policies and procedures. Support the
development of policy development by providing input and ensure the effective
implementation thereof. Develop and implement activity plan in line with the
quarterly projects. Develop an individual PDP. Submit proposals and plans for
projects of the unit. Make recommendations for external contractors and
suppliers within the unit in an effective and efficient manner. Administer the
implementation of compliant performance management system. Ensure that
employees are equipped with the required skills and resources to perform
optimally. Administer asset management and projects in line with PFMA and
Supply Chain Management Framework.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms S Maswanganyi, Tel No: 012 406 4236
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/59 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAYOUT AND DESIGN, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/19
Chief Directorate: Communication Services
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 9). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Graphic Design, Communication, Computer
Animation, Digital Arts or Motion Graphic Design at NQF 6 as recognized by
SAQA. Three (3) Years’ experience at a SAO (Junior) level is required. Portfolio
of previous work and sufficient evidence of graphic design projects. Advance
in using Adobe Creative Cloud, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe in design, Adobe
Illustrator and Adobe Premier Pro. Knowledge of Video Editing, 3D and Motion
Graphic apps such as Final Cut Pro, Sketchbook, Canva and Procreate will be
an added advantage. Knowledge of Apple Mac, Macbook Pro and the use of
Apple IPad for design purposes. Knowledge and understanding of Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge and understanding of Public
Service Regulatory Framework. Knowledge and understanding of all
Departmental Legislations and Prescripts. Knowledge of all communication
strategies and processes. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage.
Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Required skills and
competencies: Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer
focus. Knowledge management. Decision Making. Communication (written
and verbal). Program and project management. Problem solving and analysis.
Business report writing. Influencing and networking. Presentation skills.
Planning and organizing skills. Interpersonal skills. Technical skills:
Commercial skills. Computer literacy. Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Coordinate and design all departmental designs and layouts.
Conceive ideas, concepts, and campaigns, Produces, coordinate and create
multiphase communication materials in print, and other mediums for a variety
of instructions, promotional, development and recruitment projects. Provide
professional recommendations for concept, design, art direction, production,
57
printing buying and monitors quality controls. Defines design criteria, develops
concept and direction, and proposes directs and creates art and photography.
Operates a computer or uses traditional techniques for a variety of graphic
activities, including desktop publishing and layout, production, illustration and
prepress file preparations. Creates and develops media using digital art and
photographic techniques. Monitors and tracks production projects to ensure
proper and timely completion using file maker pro; works with outside vendors
to meet production deadlines. Responsible for print and pre-press service
specifications, purchasing, approvals and quality control. Maintains equipment
and supply inventory and maintains accurate files and records thereafter.
Contributes to the editorial development of projects. Manage the visual
execution of designs and layout briefs by collecting, designing and
manipulation of artwork and photographic material, text compilation and
finalisation for the press and web. Implementation of policies, procedures,
directives, acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working
relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders. Ensure the
implementation of effective risk and compliance management. Ensure effective
and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources within
the Unit Coach and guide staff on best practices and compliance with
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms V Motshegoe, Tel No: 012 406 4252
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
commsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 11/60 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: AMENDMENTS AND RECTIFICATIONS,
REF NO: HRMC 11/26/20
Sub-Directorate: Amendment and Rectifications
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 8). (An all-inclusive salary package
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two
(2) Years’ supervisory experience in Amendments and Rectification registration
processes. Knowledge of Births and Deaths Registration. Knowledge and
understanding of all Departmental Legislations and Prescripts (Civic Services).
Basic knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework. Basic
knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Required skills and competencies:
Interpersonal Relations. Flexibility. Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning
and Organising. Conflict Resolution. Time Management. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong Client and Customer Service. Computer literacy. Planning
and Organising. Good verbal and written. Communication skills. Problem
solving. Report writing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations of the
Amendment and Rectifications Unit. Monitor daily performance against service
level standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates,
and take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-
of-day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports
on turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement
measures to ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed
standards. Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA
records management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-
standard operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical
advice, guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Coach and
guide staff on DHA policies, procedures, and compliance requirements.
Remain up to date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars,
and ensure accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices,
and members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and
advisory matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities
to management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Support digital transformation initiatives. Client Service
and Stakeholder Relations. Risk Management, Compliance, and Quality
Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
58
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms B Kabinde, Tel No: 012 406 4239
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical
address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 11/61 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: BIRTHS AND DEATHS, REF NO: HRMC
11/26/21
Sub- Directorate: Births and Deaths
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 8). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two
(2) Years’ experience in Births and Death registration processes. Knowledge
of Births and Deaths Registration. Knowledge and understanding of the
Departmental Legislations and Prescripts (Civic Services). Basic knowledge of
Human Resource Regulatory Framework. Basic knowledge of Public Service
Regulations. Required skills and competencies: Interpersonal Relations.
Flexibility. Accountability. Analytical skills. Planning and Organising. Conflict
Resolution. Time Management. Ability to meet deadlines. Strong Client and
customer service. Computer literacy. Planning and Organising Good verbal
and written. Communication skills. Problem solving. Report writing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations of the
Births and Deaths Unit. Monitor daily performance against service level
standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates, and
take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-of-
day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports on
turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement measures to
ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed standards.
Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA records
management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-standard
operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical advice,
guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Coach and
guide staff on DHA policies, procedures, and compliance requirements.
Remain up to date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars,
and ensure accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices,
and members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and
advisory matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities
to management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Support digital transformation initiatives. Client Service
and Stakeholder Relations. Risk Management, Compliance, and Quality
Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Mr S Tshabalala, Tel No: 012 406 4117
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical
address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
POST 11/62 : CIVIC SERVICES SUPERVISOR: MARRIAGES, REF NO: HRMC 11/26/22
Sub-Directorate: Marriages
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum (Level 8). (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Public Administration, Public Management,
Operations or Business Management at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. Two
(2) Years’ supervisory experience in Births and Deaths and Marriages
registration processes. Knowledge of Births and Deaths Registration.
Knowledge and understanding of the Departmental Legislations and Prescripts
59
(Civic Services). Basic knowledge of Human Resource Regulatory Framework.
Basic knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Required skills and
competencies: Interpersonal Relations. Flexibility. Accountability. Analytical
skills. Planning and Organising. Conflict Resolution. Time Management. Ability
to meet deadlines. Strong Client and customer service. Computer literacy.
Planning and Organising. Good verbal and written. Communication skills.
Problem solving. Report writing.
DUTIES : The successful candidates will be responsible for, amongst others, the
following specific tasks: Supervise and coordinate the effective daily operations
of the Marriages Unit. Monitor daily performance against service level
standards, including turnaround times, backlogs, trends, and error rates, and
take corrective action or escalate in line with DHA guidelines. Perform end-of-
day operational controls and compile daily and weekly performance reports on
turnaround times, volumes processed, and error rates. Implement measures to
ensure quality service delivery and adherence to prescribed standards.
Manage records and documentation in accordance with DHA records
management policies and prescripts. Attend to standard and non-standard
operational requests and issues raised by staff. Provide technical advice,
guidance, and on-the-job support to staff in the execution of daily tasks.
Allocate daily work to staff members and monitor progress against daily targets
and outputs. Identify operational challenges (capacity constraints, training
gaps, bottlenecks) and recommend solutions to management. Coach and
guide staff on DHA policies, procedures, and compliance requirements.
Remain up to date with legislative requirements, DHA policies, and circulars,
and ensure accurate implementation. Liaise with Front Offices, Foreign Offices,
and members of the public regarding application status, enquiries, and
advisory matters. Escalate all irregularities and suspected fraudulent activities
to management or Counter Corruption and Security in accordance with
prescribed procedures. Support digital transformation initiatives. Client Service
and Stakeholder Relations. Risk Management, Compliance, and Quality
Assurance. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and
financial resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms S Maswanganyi, Tel No: 012 406 4236
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za Head Office, Hallmark Building: Physical
address: 230 Johannes Ramokhoase Street, Pretoria, 0001
60
ANNEXURE H
INDEPENDENT POLICE INVESTIGATIVE DIRECTORATE
The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representatively in terms of race, gender and disability within the
Department through the filling of posts.
APPLICATIONS : Independent Police Investigative Directorate, National Office Private Bag X941
Pretoria, 0002 or hand deliver to Benstra Building, 473 Stanza Bopape &
Church Street, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0001 or Recruitment10@ipid.gov.za (Please
indicate the post name and reference number on the subject line) when
applying through e-mail
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
FOR ATTENTION : Ms P Mereko Tel: (012) 399 0189
NOTE : Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents on applications but must submit Z83 and a detailed Curriculum
Vitae. Applications quoting the correct reference number must be submitted on
the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents . Received applications using the incorrect
application form (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for
employment form must be fully completed, signed and initialled by the
applicant. Failure to sign this form may lead to disqualification of the application
during the selection process. A recently updated, comprehensive CV as well
as a fully completed and initialled new signed Z83 (Section A, B, C & D are
compulsory and section E, F and G are not compulsory if CV it is attached).
However, the question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under
Part-F must be answered. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit
Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification; it must be accompanied
by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA) (only when shortlisted). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned requirements, as well
as applications received late, will not be considered. Due to the large number
of applications we envisage to receive, applications will not be acknowledged,
if you have not been contacted within three (3) weeks after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for the post will be required to submit the documents on
or before the date of the interview. The successful candidate will have to
undergo security vetting. His / her character should be beyond reproach. The
appointment is subject to security clearance, verification of qualifications and
competency assessment (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Applicants must declare
any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other allegations or investigations
against them. Should this be uncovered during / after the interview took place,
the application will not be considered and in the unlikely event, that the person
has been appointed such appointment will be terminated. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security vetting
process. All applicants are required to declare any conflict or perceived conflict
of interest, to disclose memberships of Boards and directorships that they may
be associated with. The successful candidates will be appointed on a probation
period of 12 months and will be required to sign a performance agreement. The
suitable candidate will be selected with the intention of promoting representivity
and achieving affirmative action targets as contemplated in the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate
reserves the right to fill or not fill the post.
OTHER POST
POST 11/63 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ICT PROJECT MANAGEMENT REF NO:
Q9/2026/26
SALARY : R468 459. per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria (National Office)
61
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate Degree / Higher National Diploma, on NQF Level 7 as
recognized by SAQA, in Business Administration / Information Technology.
Certificate Project Management (Prince 2). 2-3 years' experience as a
business/ system analysis or related field. A valid driver’s license. 6.Knowledge
Requirements: In-depth knowledge and experience of the following ICT
disciplines: Project Management, Enterprise Architecture, Business Analysis
and the System Development Lifecycle. In-depth knowledge and experience
Commercial of the Shelf (COTS) products Open-Source Software (OSS)
product. In-depth understanding of system development life cycle. In-depth
knowledge of project management methodologies. Competencies: Results-
driven. Planning skills, Creativity. Leadership. Change management skills.
Team Participation Concern for Quality and Order. Problem Solving and
Analysis. Systems Thinking. Information Sharing. Integrity/ Honesty. Emotional
Intelligence Effective Communication. Commitment to Learning Computer
literacy. Client Service Orientation. Business IT system.
DUTIES : Key performance areas: Develop detailed project plan: Define and review the
project scope and objectives. Manage changes to the project scope, project
schedule and project costs. Manage and coordinate project governance.
Coordinate internal and external project resources. Ensure project documents
are in order for execution. Manage project deliverables: Track and measure
project performance using appropriate tools and techniques. Analyse and
review project deliverable for confirmation, acceptance and sign-off. Report
project progress and performance to management. Ensure that all projects are
delivered on time, within scope and within budget. Ensure project is
successfully implemented and dosed. Manage stakeholders and service
providers: Establish and maintain relationship with third parties I vendors.
Manage contracts and SLA on behalf of IPID. Organise and lead project
meetings with relevant stakeholders I vendors. Perform risk management;
Ensure project risks and issues are managed. Ensure mitigation of risks are
implements and reported.
ENQURIES : Mr T Moletsane Tel: (012) 399 0016
62
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post. The application must include only completed and signed new
Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. Applicants who wish to post their application forms are
encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the current post office
challenges. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. A pre-entry certificate
obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is required before
appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a financial
disclosure form and also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance
certificate from country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an
equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts the objectives of
section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of
1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment
Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies
of the Department will be taken into consideration. Reasonable
accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities including where
driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3 months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
department reserves the right not to fill these positions. Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE
Target.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the post of Administrative Officer with Ref No:
26/17/KZN advertised in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 10 of 2026 dated
20 March 2026 with the closing date of 10 April 2026, has been withdrawn. We
apologize for any inconvenience caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/64 : OFFICE MANAGER (X2 POSTS)
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply)
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Port Elizabeth, Ref No: 60/26EC (X1 Post)
State Attorney: Mthatha, Ref No: 61/26EC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 years National Diploma/Degree in Public Administration/ Human
Resources Management/ Administration or Business Administration at NQF-
Level 6; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in administration environment;
Knowledge of HR matters and its policies, framework; Procurement directives
and procedures, Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution and the
legislative framework governing the Public Service. Skills and Competencies:
63
Applied Strategic thinking; Applied technology; Budgeting and financial
management; Communication and information Management; Continuous
Improvement; Citizen focus and responsiveness; Developing others; Impact
and influence; Problem solving and analysis; Planning and Organising;
Decision Making; Project Management; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage procurement and finance of goods and
services; Manage documents for registry support services; Undertake policy or
line function tasks as required; Co-ordinate external strategic alliances
between the office and other stake holders; Manage general support and
resources services; Manage human, finance and other resources services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Jilana Tel No: (043) 702 7000 / 7010
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X9065, East London, 5200 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or hand deliver at the Provincial
Office, Department of Justice, 3 Phillip Frame Road, Waverley Park complex,
East London.
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 11/65 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERPRETING SERVICES: SESOTHO REF NO:
26/16/CA
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 6) as recognized by SAQA in Legal
Interpreting/Language Practice; A minimum of 3 years’ experience of
administration in language practice/interpreting at functional level; Knowledge
and understanding of the legislative framework governing the Public Service,
Financial Management and regulatory framework/guidelines, prescripts, Public
Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Treasury Regulations, Departmental
Financial Instructions, Public Finance Management Act; Knowledge and
understanding of office administration; interpretation and application of
policies, prescripts and procedures; Knowledge of constitutional law cases,
criminal civil law; Knowledge and understanding of family cases, Interpretation
of statutes. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Applied
technology; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management; Impact and
influence; Managing interpersonal conflict and resolving problems; Planning
and organizing; Decision making; Project management; Team leadership;
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate the rendering of interpreting services in
the Department; Coordinate training on court interpreting services; Facilitate
the implementation of policies and frameworks related to foreign and local
languages; Manage human, finance and other resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Modibane Tel No: (012) 315 1668
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001.OR Physical address:
Application Box, First Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329
Pretorius Street, Pretoria OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/66 : COURT INTERMEDIARY (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Morebeng Ref No: 02/26/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office Thohoyandou Ref No: 03/26/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office Tzaneen Ref No: 04/26/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A three year Bachelor Degree/ National Diploma/ academic qualification in one
of the following fields; Teaching, Social Work/ Family Counselling, Child Care
and youth development, Paediatrics, Psychiatry, Clinical counselling,
Educational Psychologist; Applicants must be duly registered with the relevant
professional/ scientific organization/body in their field of specialization;
Minimum of three years working experience in the applicable field; Experience
64
in working with different types of disabilities, exposure to court procedure, court
etiquette, legal terms and terminology and functions of courts will be added
advantages; Knowledge of the relevant legal and regulatory framework
(Constitution of RSA, 1996; Criminal Procedure Act, 1977 (Act No 51 of 1977),
particularly sections 153, 158 and 170A of the Act; Criminal Law (Sexual
Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 (Act No 32 of 2007);
Children’s Act, 2005 (Act No 38 of 2005); Domestic Violence Act (Act No 116
of 1998). A valid driver’s license. Proficiency in English and one or more
indigenous languages spoken in the area. Knowledge of any foreign languages
will be an added an advantage. Skills and Competencies: Communication and
empathetic listening skills (with children, persons with mental disabilities and
other traumatized witnesses), Trauma and basic counselling skills;
Interpersonal skills; Customer focus and responsiveness; Administrative skills;
Computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint, Outlook, Excel); Problem solving
and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide intermediary services to children, persons
with mental disabilities and other traumatized witnesses; Provide specialized
child language and disability services; Maintain intermediary room by ensuring
that the equipment of the private testifying room is always in good order;
Provide support services to witnesses and make appropriate referrals, where
necessary; Render administration support services in court; Assist children to
testify with the aid of anatomically detailed dolls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.P Mongalo Tel No: (015) 287 2037 or: Ms M.F. Mathosa Tel No: (015)
287 2035.
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X 9526, Polokwane 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
POST 11/67 : MAINTENANCE INVESTIGATOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Morebeng, Ref No: 06/26/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Musina, Ref No: 07/26/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification; Relevant administrative
experience and in family law matters; Knowledge of the Maintenance Act (Act
of 99 of 1989); Skills and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good
communication skills (verbal and written); Planning and organizing; Good
interpersonal relations; Time management; Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve maintenance summons, subpoenas, warrants
and garnishee orders for District in terms of the Maintenance Act; Locate
whereabouts of persons; Give testimony in Court under oath; Render
administrative support to the Office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mapelane Tel No: (015) 287 2035 or Mr MI Modiba Tel No: (015) 287 2034
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/68 : CHIEF ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 08/26/LMP
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Musina
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 certificate or equivalent; Three (3) years’ experience in
Administration; Understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Treasury
Regulations; Departmental Financial Instructions (DFI), Public Service Act and
other relevant legislation. Skills and Competencies: Communication (written
and verbal) skills; Computer Literacy (MS Office); Planning and Organizing
skill; Ability to work under pressure; Problem solving skills; Customer service;
Document management and filing; Numerical skills.
65
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Supervise and render clerical support services;
Supervise and provide Supply Chain clerical services within the component;
Supervise and provide personnel administration clerical support services within
the component; Supervise and provide financial administration support
services in the component; Provide effective people management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.F Mathosa Tel No: (015) 287 2035 or Mr M.I Modiba (015) 287 2034
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X 9526, Polokwane 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/69 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: 09/26/LMP
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Polokwane (Capricorn District)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent; An NQF level 6 in Financial Accounting/ Financial
Management/Economics / Public Finance/ Internal Audit, B com in Finance
recognized by SAQA; 3 years’ experience in Financial Management
environment. Knowledge of Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Treasury Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, and Budget
Management; Knowledge of Division of Revenue Act (DORA), Preferential
Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA), Public Audit Act; Knowledge of
Payroll administration; Budget management and costing. Skills and
Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel); Good communication
(written and verbal) skills; Ability to work under pressure; Administrative and
organizational skills; Sound interpersonal relations; Accuracy and attention to
details.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Monitor the Cash Flow Management for the province;
Provide financial administration in the province; Monitor the monthly Third-
Party Funds (TPF) Bank Reconciliation in the province; Implement and Monitor
compliance; Facilitate audit process within the province.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.F. Mathosa Tel No: (015) 287 2035 OR Mr P.M. Mongwe Tel No: (015)
287 2034
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Regional Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag x9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Regional Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0700 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/70 : MAINTENANCE OFFICER (MR1 - MR5) REF NO: 05/26/LMP
SALARY : R252 855 – R1 111 323 per annum (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Groblersdal
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB Degree or a four (4) year recognized legal qualification; Knowledge of
the maintenance system, Maintenance Act and family law matters;
Understanding of all services and procedure in the area of Maintenance. Skills
and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good communication skills
(verbal and written); Numeracy Skills; Interpersonal relations; Problem solving
skills; Report writing and time management skills; Accuracy and attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Perform the powers, duties or functions of a
Maintenance Officer in terms of the Maintenance Act; Obtain financial
information for the purposes of maintenance enquiries; Guide Maintenance
Investigators in the performance of their functions; Implementation of Bench
orders; Provide reports and compile statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.R Phalane Tel No: (015) 287 2036 or Mr. P.M Mongwe Tel No: (015) 287
2034
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
66
POST 11/71 : REGISTRAR (MR 1 – MR 4) REF NO: 10/26/LMP
SALARY : R252 855 – R444 075 per annum (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Polokwane (Regional Court)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB or four year recognized legal qualification; Knowledge of the South African
legal system, legal practices and related spheres with specific reference to civil
litigation and the law of contract; Knowledge of the Constitution, the Institution
of Legal Proceedings Against Certain Organs of State Act, the Prescription Act,
the State Attorney Act, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
Departmental Financial Instructions and the State Liability Act. Skills and
Competencies: Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Case flow
management; Numeracy skills; Office management, planning and organization
skills; Communication (written & verbal); Computer literacy (MS Office); Ability
to interpret acts and regulations.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Co-ordinate Case Flow Management support service
to the Judiciary and Prosecution at regional level; Coordinate all process that
initiate court proceedings; Compile and submit monthly reports on the civil
statistics performance for the office of the Regional Court President and
Department of Justice and Constitutional Development (DOJ&CD); Manage
the provision of records to Magistracy in appeal and review cases; Manage
compliance with the work practices in the Office; Provide effective people
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M.P Mongalo Tel No: (015) 287 2037 OR Mr L. Mapelane Tel No: (015)
287 2035
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag x9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Regional Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0700 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/72 : COURT INTERPRETERS (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Groblersdal, Ref No: 11/26/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Phalala, Ref No: 12/26/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Thohoyandou, Ref No: 13/26/LMP (X2 Posts) (This is a re-
advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12; Proficiency in English and one or more indigenous
languages; Language requirements: Groblersdal: Tsonga, Venda and
Setswana; Phalala: Venda and Ndebele, Shona will be an added advantage;
Thohoyandou: Venda, Tsonga & Sepedi, Shona will be an added advantage.
The following will serve as an added advantage: Three months practical
experience and a driver’s license; Knowledge of any foreign languages will be
an added an advantage; Applicants will be subjected to a Language test. Skills
and Competencies: Computer literacy (MS Office); Good communications
(written and verbal); Administration and organizational skills; Ability to maintain
interpersonal relations; Accuracy and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi – judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultations; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Mapelane Tel No: (015) 287 2035 or Mr P.M Mongwe. Tel No: (015) 287
2034
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
67
POST 11/74 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Mankweng, Ref No: 25/26/LMP (Family Law Service) (X1
Post)
Magistrate Office: Polokwane, Ref No: 24/26/LMP (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Polokwane, Ref No: 23/26/LMP (CRT) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Waterval, Ref No: 22/26/LMP (Family Law Service) (X1
Post)
Family Advocate: Polokwane, Ref No: 21/26/LMP (X2 Posts)
Magistrate Office: Mahwelereng, Ref No: 20/26/LMP (Cash Hall) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Lephalale, Ref No: 19/26/LMP (Family Law Service) (X1
Post)
Magistrate Office: Giyani, Refno: 18/26/LMP (CRT) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Lenyenye, Ref No: 17/26/LMP (CRT) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Musina, Ref No: 16/26/LMP (Cash Hall) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Lulekani, Ref No: 15/26/LMP (Civil & Small Claims) (X1
Post)
Magistrate Office: Groblersdal, Ref No: 14/26/LMP (Civil & Small Claims) (X1
Post)
Magistrate Office: Mankweng Ref No: 26/26/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy (MS Office); Administrative and Organizational skills; Ability to work
under pressure; Good interpersonal relations; Customer service; Document
management and filing.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration support within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Polokwane Mr M.C Rapetsoa Tel No: (015) 294 6000
Family Law Service: Mankweng Ms M.B Molepo Tel No: (015) 286 2200
Waterval: Mr M.A. Letsoalo Tel No: (015) 556 4052
Family Advocate Polokwane: Mr M.I Modiba Tel No: (015) 287 2034
Mahwelereng: Mr L.O. Munzhelele Tel No: (015) 483 0302
Lephalale/Ellisras: Mr L.M. Aphane Tel No (014) 763 2178
Giyani: Ms T. J. Mabunda Tel No: (015) 812 5011
Lenyenye: Mr G. P. Mdluli Tel No: (015) 355 3414
Musina: Ms M.M Nchabeleng Tel No: (015) 534 2146
Groblersdal: Ms. A Botlholo Tel No: (013) 262 2033
Mankweng: Ms M.B Molepo Tel No: (015) 286 2200
APPLICATIONS : Mankweng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager, Magistrate Mankweng Private Bag X1114,
SovengA, 0727. or Physical address /Reception area Magistrate Mankweng
reception area or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
PolokwanE: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager: Magistrate Polokwane, Department of
Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X9320, Polokwane 0700
OR hand deliver at Reception Area, Magistrate Polokwane opposite
Polokwane Municipality or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Waterval: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager, Magistrate Waterval; Private Bag 332
ELIM Hospital 0960 or Physical address: Reception area Magistrate Waterval
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Polokwane: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X 9526, Polokwane 0700 OR Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699
OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Mahwelereng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: The Court Manager, Magistrate Mahwelereng, Private Bag X2493,
Mahwelereng, 0600 or Direct your application to: Hand Delivery Address:
Reception area Magistrate Mahwelereng, Mahwelereng, 0600 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Elisras/Lephalale: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: Postal address: The Court Manager, Magistrate Lephalale;
Private Bag X201, Ellisras 0555. or Physical address /Reception area
68
Magistrate Lephalale reception area OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Giyani: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager, Magistrate Giyani, Private Bag X572,
Giyani, 0826 or Physical Address: Main Road Opposite Old Nkhensani
Hospital, Giyani Magistrate, 0826 OR https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Lenyenye: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Court Manager, Magistrate Lenyenye, Private Bag X1416, Lenyenye,
0857 or Direct your application to: Hand Delivery Address: Reception Area,
Magistrate Lenyenye, Lenyenye 0857 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Musina: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Court Manager, Magistrate Musina, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag x 621, Musina 0900 or Physical address: 1st Flax
Avenue - Messina, Magistrate Building opposite SAPS, Messina or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Lulekani: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal address: The Court Manager, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X12005, Lulekani, 1392. or Physical address
/Reception area Magistrate Office Lulekani or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
GroblersdaL: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal address: The Court Manager, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X671, Groblersdal, 0470. or Physical address
/Reception area Magistrate Office Groblersdal or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/75 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 2026/16/GP
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : State Attorney: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification; Knowledge of document management
and filing. Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills (written and
verbal); Good interpersonal skills; Ability to work under pressure and to solve
problems; Customer service; Computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provide registry counter services; Handle incoming
and outgoing correspondence; Render an effective filing and record
management; service; Operate office machines in relation the registry function;
Process documents for archiving and/disposal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. V Shiburi Tel No: (011) 332 9000
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Provincial
Office-Gauteng, Private Bag X6, Johannesburg 2000 or Physical Address:
Provincial Office–Gauteng; Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development; 7th floor Schreiner chambers, 94 Pritchard, Johannesburg or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/76 : SECRETARY TO THE SUB-CLUSTER HEAD REF NO: 27/26/LMP
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Modimolle
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (with typing as subject or Secretarial Certificate or any other
training/qualification that will enable the person to perform the work
satisfactorily). Skills and Competencies: Planning and organizing; Computer
literacy (Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Internet); Good
communication (verbal and written) skills; Presentation skills; Problem solving;
Good Interpersonal relations; Proper usage of Presentation Equipment’s;
Ability to correctly interpret relevant documentation; Numeracy; Intermediate
typing skills.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Provides a Secretarial/receptionist support service to
the manager; Provides clerical support service to the manager; Provides
support to manager regarding meetings; Remains up to date with regard to
prescripts/policies and procedures applicable to the work terrain to ensure
efficient and effective support to the manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S Molomo Tel No: (014) 717 5316
69
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: Postal
address: The Court Manager, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X1011, Modimolle, 0510. OR Physical address:
Reception area, Magistrate Modimolle Office or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 11/77 : MESSENGER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master’s Office: Polokwane, Ref No: 29/26/LMP (X1 Post)
Master’s Office: Thohoyandou, Ref No: 28/26/LMP (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10 / Abet level 4 qualification; A valid drivers’ licence. Skills and
Competencies: Interpersonal skills; Creative thinking; Customer service
orientation; Problem analysis; Self-management; Self-management; Ability to
work in a Team; Technical proficiency.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render Driver / Messenger support services; Collect
correspondence, distribute mail and parcels to the various offices; Collect
documents from respective government institutions; Transport officials to
various destinations; Render Clerical support services.
ENQUIRIES : Polokwane: Mr M.I Modiba Tel No: (015) 287 2034
Thohoyandou: Mr W.R Manhengeni Tel No: (015) 960 1491
APPLICATIONS : Polokwane: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
Postal Address: The Provincial Head, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag X 9526, Polokwane 0700 or Physical address:
Reception area, Limpopo Provincial Office, 92 Bok Street, Polokwane, 0699 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Thohoyandou Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to: Postal Address: The Office Manager, Department of Justice & Constitutional
Development, Private Bag x 5015, ,0950 or Physical address: Reception area,
Master of High Court Thohoyandou, Old Venda Parliament, High Court
Building, Mphephu Drive, Thohoyandou,0950 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number
70
ANNEXURE J
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT AGENT
The Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) is a Government Component within the Ministry for
Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs. It is a Schedule 3 entity regulated in terms of the Public
Service Act, 1994, as amended. MISA’s primary function is to support municipalities in infrastructure
planning implementation, operations, and maintenance.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026
NOTE : For All Applications: Applications must quote the relevant reference number
and consist of: A fully completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za/ ’’From 1 January 2021 should an application
be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it will not be
considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees (telephone
numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are not required
to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application
but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified qualifications , only shortlisted
candidates will submit proof of permanent residence. All shortlisted candidates
for all posts will be subjected to personnel suitability checks on criminal
records, citizen verification, financial records, qualification. Correspondence
will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted
within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be
expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement
within 3 months of appointment, as well as completing a financial interest
declaration within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. For more
information please contact: Mr Nkosikhona Zuma/Ms Gugu Gumede Tel: 012
848 5364/5337/5401 / To The T Recruitment, Tel. 069 685 9970
2026 TO 2028 GRADUATE INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME
Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent (MISA) invites South African unemployed graduate to apply for
the 2026/2028 MISA graduate Internship programme. Internship in the public service is a once off
opportunity per qualification. Those that have previously participated in an internship programme will
not be considered. MISA invites suitable candidates to apply for the following positions, based in MISA
Head Office in Centurion, Pretoria.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/78 : INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY INTERN REF NO:
MISA/ICT/01
Chief Directorate: ICT
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Information Technology/
Computer Systems Engineering.
ENQUIRIES : To The T Recruitment, Tel. 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa24@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 11/79 : FINANCE INTERNS REF NO: MISA/FINANCE/02 (4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Finance
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) BCom Accounting / Financial
Management / Accounting and Cost and Management Accounting.
ENQUIRIES : To The T Recruitment, Tel. 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa25@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 11/80 : INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE INTERN REF NO: MISA/ICC/03
(1 POST)
Chief Directorate: Finance
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
71
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF 6) /Degree (NQF 7) in Accounting/Auditing/Internal
Audit/Risk Management
ENQUIRIES : To The T Recruitment, Tel. 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa26@tttrecruitment.co.za
POST 11/81 : LEGAL SERVICES INTERN REF NO: MISA/LEGAL/04 (1 POST)
Chief Directorate: CSM
STIPEND : R7860.50 per month
CENTRE : MISA Head Office, Centurion
REQUIREMENTS : LLB
ENQUIRIES : To The T Recruitment, Tel. 069 685 9970
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number to:
misa27@tttrecruitment.co.za
72
ANNEXURE K
NATIONAL PROSECUTING AUTHORITY
The NPA is an equal opportunity employer. People with disabilities will be given preference and are
encouraged to apply. In the filling of vacancies, the objectives of Section 195(1)(i) of the Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa,1996, and in particular the Employment Equity Act,1998 (Act 55 of 1998) and
the NPA Employment Equity Strategy 2022-2026, will take highest preference in selection of suitable
candidates.
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be submitted to the relevant Recruitment Response E
mails stated below
CLOSING DATE : 15 April 2026
NOTE : Applicants must apply by submitting applications on the most recent Z83 form
obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/ and a comprehensive CV ONLY
(with detailed experience information). Failure to do so will result in your
application being disqualified. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on or
before the day of the interview following communication from Human
Resources. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation
report issued by SAQA (only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA and to
provide proof of such evaluation (only when shortlisted). All applications must
reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late applications will be
accepted/processed. Documents should not be password protected, and ZIP
files will be blocked. The NPA cannot be held responsible for server delays. All
applications must reach the NPA on/or before the closing date. No late
applications will be accepted/processed. The applicant’s attention is drawn to
the fact that the NPA uses an Electronic Response Handling System in terms
of e-mailed applications. Please Do Not contact the NPA directly after you have
e-mailed your applications to enquire if your application(s) have been received.
If you have not received an acknowledgement of receipt within one week after
the closing date, then you can contact the NPA. The NPA reserves the right
not to fill any particular position. If you do not hear from us within (6) six months
from the closing date of the advert, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Successful candidates will be subjected to a security clearance
of at least confidential. Appointment to this position will be provisional, pending
the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day of the
interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be
accessed as part of the verification process. A valid driver’s license will be a
requirement where applicable. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments which are, a practical exercise and an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical elements of the job,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the NPA. Following the interview
and technical exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment (in compliance
with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-based
assessments). The competency assessment will test generic managerial
competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021 a new application form for
employment (Z83) is in use. The new application for employment form can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect (old) application for employment
(Z83), it will not be considered. NB! Applicants Who Are Successful Must
Please Note That The Npa Is Not In A Position To Pay Resettlement Costs
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the post of Victim Assistant Officer (TCC:
Phekolong) Free State with Recruit 2025/245 advertised in circular 15 of 09
May 2025 is hereby withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/82 : REGIONAL HEAD RECRUIT 2026/76
Office for Witness Protection
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum (Total Cost Package) (SMS Level 13)
CENTRE : Limpopo
73
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 in Law/ International
Relations/Military/Police/Political Science or equivalent as recognised by
SAQA. Nyukela Certificate (Certificate for entry into the Senior Management
Service from the school of Government). Minimum of five (5) years’ experience
at middle management in a law enforcement / criminal justice environment.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. High level of understanding of and
competency in people protection. Competency in at least two (2) official
languages, one (1) of which must be English (multi-linguistic skills will be
advantageous). Communication skills (verbal and written). Planning,
organisational and financial management skills. High level of sensitivity
towards people management. Knowledge of the Witness Protection Act, 112
of 1998, the Constitution of the RSA. Sound interpersonal relations. Conflict
Management and conflict resolution. Negotiating and analytical skills. High
level of dedication. Ability to think logically and high level of empathy. Must be
prepared to travel extensively, even after hours. Sound knowledge of the Public
Service Act and Regulations. Sound knowledge of National Crime Prevention
strategy. Sound knowledge of the Minimum-Security Information Standards.
Sound Knowledge of leading and planning operations. Valid driver’s license.
Willing to undergo security clearance.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the provision of provincial operation and strategic
support for the witness protection programme. Manage and coordinate the
assessment for admission of witnesses into the witness protection programme.
Administer the processes for the OWP. Manage stakeholder relations. Generic
management functions.
ENQUIRIES : KR Tsubella –Tel No:012 845 6925
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202676@npa.gov.za
POST 11/83 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2026/77
(Re-advert)
Specialised Commercial Crime Unit
SALARY : R1 195 110.per annum (Total Cost Package) – R1 859 814.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (LP-9)
CENTRE : Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Admission as advocate or attorney will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as contemplated in
section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. High level of proficiency in
prosecuting and presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding
criminal investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory offences.
Interpersonal skills. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Good
advocacy, well developed skills in legal research and legal drafting skills.
Knowledge of PFMA, MFMA and money laundering matters. Strong computer
skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently. Valid
driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Conduct prosecution on behalf of the State on Serious, complex and organised
crime cases, corruption and money laundering matters. Advise the police on
the investigation of serious, complex organised crime cases and cyber related
matters. Conduct legal research and keep up to date with legal developments.
Draft charge sheets and other court documents and represent the State in all
courts. Draft heads of arguments and argue appeals. Present cases in court,
lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on conviction and
sentence. Appear in motion proceedings and also do appeals and reviews.
Generally, conduct prosecution on behalf of the State. Manage performance
assessment, mentor and guide work of Junior Advocates. Offers skills transfer
to lower court prosecutors and investigating officers. Perform ad hoc duties
incidental to middle management services regionally.
ENQUIRIES : Ziyanda Mtwazi Tel No: 047 501 2632
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202677@npa.gov.za
74
POST 11/84 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2026/78
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 195 110.per annum (Total Cost Package) – R1 859 814.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (LP-9)
CENTRE : DDPP: Bhisho
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Five (5) years’
experience in legal practice will be an added advantage. Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Decision making ability. Computer literacy and
knowledge of programs in MS Office. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other court documents.
Represent the State in all courts. Prepare cases for court, including the
acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets, indictments and
court documents. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Attend to
representations, prepare opinions and head of arguments and argue cases in
appropriate court. Appear in court in motion application pertaining to criminal
matters and in general conduct prosecution on behalf of the state. Perform all
duties related thereto in accordance with the code of conduct policy and
directives of the NPA. Mentor and coach junior staff and quality check their
work. Participate in the performance assessment of staff being mentored.
ENQUIRIES : Talita Raga Tel No: 040 608 6800
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202678@npa.gov.za
POST 11/85 : SENIOR STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2026/79
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R1 195 110. per annum (Total Cost Package) – R1 859 814.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (LP-9)
CENTRE : Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. At least eight years post
qualification legal experience in civil and/or criminal litigation. Right of
appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Good
advocacy and legal drafting skills. Good knowledge of civil and / or criminal
procedure. Admitted Advocate and / or Attorney will be an added advantage.
Knowledge of Asset Forfeiture law will be an added advantage. Strong
Computer skills and knowledge of programs in MS Word, Excel, Outlook,
PowerPoint. Willing to travel and work extended hours. Ability to do legal
research. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Civil litigation on behalf of the State regarding all aspects of the freezing of
property and obtaining final forfeiture/ confiscation orders. Liaise with
Prosecutors on cases with asset forfeiture potential. Draft and present asset
forfeiture applications in all courts. Train Prosecutors and Investigators in the
use of Asset Forfeiture Law. Keep up to date with legal developments.
ENQUIRIES : Katlego Phiri Tel No: 012 845 6713
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202679@npa.gov.za
POST 11/86 : SENIOR PUBLIC PROSECUTOR RECRUIT 2026/80
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 195 110per annum (Total Cost Package) – R1 859 814.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (CM-1)
CENTRE : CPP: Bloemfontein (Phuthaditjhaba)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least eight (8) years post qualification legal experience. Five
(5) years’ experience in legal practice will be an added advantage.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Manage, give
guidance to and train prosecutors. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigations and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
75
common law and statutory offences. Able to draft charge sheets and complex
court documents. Ability to act independently without constant supervision.
Must have good administrative skills. A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Manage and supervise allocation of work and management of performance for
lower level prosecutors including trainee Prosecutor. Train and guide
Prosecutors including trainee Prosecutors and stakeholders in preparation of
case dockets and deciding on the institution and conduct criminal proceedings.
Represent the State in all courts. Present and assist prosecutors including
trainee Prosecutors in presentation of state’s case court, lead and cross
examination of witnesses and address court on inter alia conviction and the
like. Attend to representations and complaints. Attend to instructions of the
Chief Prosecutor and the Director of Public Prosecutions. Lead Prosecutors
towards achieving strategic goals and operational targets set by NPA, DPP
office and CPP. Perform all duties including administrative duties related
thereto, in accordance with code of conduct, policy directives of NPA. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: 051 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202680@npa.gov.za
POST 11/87 : DEPUTY CHIEF PROTECTOR
Office of Witness Protection
SALARY : R1 059 105.per annum (Total Cost Package) (MMS Level 12)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Cape Town) – Recruit 2026/81
Northern Cape (Kimberley) – Recruit 2026/82
Mpumalanga (Witbank) – Recruit 2026/83
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6) in
Policing or equivalent. Must have at least six (6) years’ experience in the field
of the post. Must have police, military, or correctional service basic training.
Must have successfully completed a VIP and/or Close Protection course.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. High level of understanding of and
competency in people protection. Knowledge and experience of undercover
work. Must be competent in at least two (2) official languages of which one
must be English. Must be prepared to be available 24/7 and travel extensively,
even after-hours. Know how to account for public funds according to the PFMA.
Knowledge of Asset Management in the Public service, Knowledge of the
Constitution and Bill of Rights, National Crime Prevention Strategy, Victims
Charter, and Batho Pele Principles. Sound knowledge the Witness Protection
Act, 1998, Firearm control Act and Criminal Procedure Act, 1977. Sound
knowledge of the Public Service Act and Regulations, the PFMA, 1999 and
Treasury Regulations. Sound knowledge of the Minimum-Security Information
Standards (MISS). Must be prepared to undergo a Top-Secret security
clearance, a regular polygraph and voice stress analysis test. Strategic
capability and leadership. General management skills. People management
and empowerment. Administration skills. Good communication skills. Planning
and Prioritizing. Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Problem solving and
decision making. Candidate will be subjected to a competency assessment
which can include report writing, fire-arm competency, advance driving, and
fitness assessment. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Manage admissions of vulnerable and intimidated witnesses and related
persons. Manage and coordinate the protection of witnesses and related
persons and contribute to their safety. Ensure that operations are conducted in
line with the OWP mandate. Ensure effective and efficient utilization of
resources and good governance. Provide sound stakeholder relationships.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape (Cape Town) PM Nelson Tel No: 051 410 6162
Northern Cape (Kimberley) C Immelman Tel No: 053 807 4561
Mpumalanga (Witbank) S Davids Tel No: 012 845 6616
APPLICATIONS : Western Cape (Cape Town) e mail: Recruit202681@npa.gov.za
Northern Cape (Kimberley) e mail: Recruit202682@npa.gov.za
Mpumalanga (Witbank) e mail: Recruit202683@npa.gov.za
POST 11/88 : REGIONAL COURT CONTROL PROSECUTOR RECRUIT 2026/84
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R1 032 906 - R1 675 743 per annum (Level SU-3), (Total Cost Package)
76
CENTRE : CPP: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least six (6) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Good management skills. Must have the
ability to act independently or within minimum supervision. Proficiency in
prosecuting, guiding investigation and giving instructions in complex or more
difficult common law and statutory offences in Regional and District Court. Draft
complex charge sheets and complex court documents. Good management
skills. Must manage, give guidance and train prosecutors. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance
matters and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional
and District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court. Present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter
alia, conviction and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on behalf
of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the code of
conduct, policy and directives of the NPA. Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor
with the performance assessment of staff. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : Andiswa Tengile Tel No: 012 842 1450
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202684@npa.gov.za
POST 11/89 : STATE ADVOCATE RECRUIT 2026/85
(Re-advert)
Asset Forfeiture Unit
SALARY : R932 904.per annum (Total Cost Package) to R1 539 321.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level LP- 7 to LP-8)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least five (5) years post qualification legal experience in civil
and/or criminal litigation. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently,
Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Right of appearance as
contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA Act, 32 of 1998. Professional and
able to work independently. Willing to travel and able to work extended hours.
Excellent communication skills. Well-developed skills in legal drafting and
advocacy. Good knowledge of Asset Forfeiture Law will be an added
advantage. Excellent interpersonal, analytical and presentation skills. Strong
computer skills and knowledge of MS Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
Literacy and numeracy. Valid driver’s license
DUTIES : Civil litigation on behalf of the State regarding all aspects of freezing of property
and obtaining final forfeiture confiscation orders. Liaise with prosecutors on
cases with asset forfeiture potential. Draft and present asset forfeiture
applications in all courts. Train prosecutors and investigators in the use of
Asser Forfeiture Law. Keep up to date with legal developments
ENQUIRIES : Joyce Marogoa Tel No: 012 845 6700
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202685@npa.gov.za
POST 11/90 : STATE ADVOCATE
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R932 904.per annum (Total Cost Package) to R1 539 321.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level LP- 7 to LP-8)
CENTRE : DPP: Mpumalanga - Recruit 2026/86 (Re-advert)
DDPP: Gqeberha – Recruit 2026/108
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. Right of appearance as contemplated in section 25(2) of the NPA
Act, 32 of 1998. At least five (5) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Well-developed skills in legal research and
legal drafting. Good knowledge of civil and/or criminal procedure. Proficiency
in prosecution, competency in guiding investigations, drafting charge sheets,
indictments and court documents and dealing with representations. Knowledge
of and skills in general prosecution. High level of proficiency in prosecuting and
77
presenting/arguing cases in court. Experience in guiding criminal investigations
and giving instructions in law and statutory offences. Interpersonal skills.
Written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work independently with
minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Study and guide the investigations in case dockets. Decide on the institution of
and conduct criminal proceedings. Draft charge sheets, indictments and other
court documents. Represent the State in all courts. Prepare a case for court,
including the acquisition of additional evidence and draft charge sheets and
indictments. Present the State’s case in court, lead and cross examine
witnesses, address the court on, inter alia, conviction and sentence, study
appeal and reviews. Attend to representations, prepare opinions and heads of
arguments and argue cases in the appropriate court. Appear in court in motion
application pertaining to criminal matters and in general conduct prosecution
on behalf of the state. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
code of conduct policy and directives of the NPA. Promote partner integration,
community involvement and customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners
in the criminal justice system.
ENQUIRIES : DPP: Mpumalanga Tebogo Mashile Tel No: 013 045 0686
DDPP: Gqeberha Andiswa Tengile Tel No: 012 842 1450
APPLICATIONS : DPP: Mpumalanga e mail: Recruit202686@npa.gov.za
DDPP: Gqeberha e mail: Recruit2026108@npa.gov.za
POST 11/91 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Strategy Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (Total Cost Package) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Kimberley - Recruit 2026/87
Mmabatho – Recruit 2026/88
Nelspruit – Recruit 2026/89
Polokwane – Recruit 2026/90
Bloemfontein – Recruit 2026/91
REQUIREMENTS : Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF 7) in
management/social sciences or equivalent. Minimum three (3) years’
experience in the strategic planning/performance monitoring or relevant
experience. Certificate in Strategic Management / Monitoring and Evaluation
or Operations Management from accredited institution will be an added
advantage. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. An ability to effectively and timely coordinate
the submission of all organisational performance information reports on a
regional level. Knowledge of the prosecutorial environment or sound
knowledge on the Criminal Justice System (CJS) will be an added advantage.
Excellent interpersonal communication skills (verbal and written). Excellent
report-written skills and the ability to write high-level reports to management.
Good knowledge of government legislature framework prescripts, policies and
practices. Good knowledge of performance information management practices
and prescripts in the government sector. Knowledge of the applicable
Legislative and Regulatory Framework (e.g Government Planning and
Reporting Legislation and Cycle, Framework for Strategic Plans and Annual
Performance Plans from the National Treasury 2010, Guideline for the
preparation of the Annual Report). Good knowledge on compliance
requirement for the performance information management field. Advance
computer literacy skills in Microsoft office application, such as MS Word, Excel
and PowerPoint. Ability to work independently and well under pressure. Ability
to work well in a team. Problem solving skills. Good interpersonal and customer
relations skills. Willing to travel, able to work extended hours. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : Manage business unit and regional performance information. Facilitate
operational planning sessions and regional review sessions. Monitoring and
evaluation of the business unit and regional performance plans. Monitoring of
the execution of the regional operational plans. Collation, analysis and
interpretation of organisational performance information. Keep up to date with
compliance requirements and best practice in the field of performance
information management. Risk management.
ENQUIRIES : Kimberley, Mmabatho, Nelspruit, Polokwane and Bloemfontein Sophy Seema
Tel No: 012 845 6303
APPLICATIONS : Kimberley e mail: Recruit202687@npa.gov.za
Mmabatho e mail: Recruit202688@npa.gov.za
78
Nelspruit e mail: Recruit202689@npa.gov.za
Polokwane e mail: Recruit202690@npa.gov.za
Nelspruit e mail: Recruit202691@npa.gov.za
POST 11/92 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
RECRUIT 2026/110
Strategy Operations and Compliance: Strategy Management Office
SALARY R896 436.per annum (Total Cost Package) (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pretoria: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree (NQF level 7) or B – Tech (NQF level 7) or Advanced
Diploma (NQF 7). At least five (5) years relevant experience in an ICT.
Minimum five (5) years relevant working experience in systems development.
Minimum five (5) years relevant experience in project management and
managing service level agreements. Certification in Project Management.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Practical experience in applying Project
Management methodology (PMBOK, Prince 2). Practical experience in
applying Systems Development methodologies (Waterfall, Agile and Scrum).
Working knowledge of systems development life cycle (SDLC). Working
knowledge of enterprise architecture. ITIL (Ver 3 or 4) foundation certification.
Be up to date with the key ICT trends (i.e cloud computing, analytics, machine
language and AI). General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs
such as Ms Word, Excel, Ms outlook and PowerPoint. Good presentation skills.
Written and verbal communication skills. Research skills and interpersonal
skills. People management and empowerment. Strategic capability and
leadership. Planning and prioritising skills. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Problem solving and Decision Making. Valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide project management on all systems projects including integrated
Justice Systems projects. Define standards, strategies, methodologies and
governance in support of business requirements. Identify resources required
for systems maintenance. Ensure appropriate service level agreements are in
place. Oversight of business analysis and systems analysis and developers.
Track project plans and delivery timelines. Ensure systems are delivered within
time, under budget and are of good quality. Drive user adoption of systems
deployed. Ensure change management through systems life cycle. Ensure all
requirements for systems are properly documented and signed off. Facilitate
proposals for new solutions. Responsible for systems administration, user
training and support. Ensure proper handover of developed solutions. Identify
and vet all enhancements required for systems development. Implement and
manage best-practice processes (ITIL framework). Ensure systems databases
and information are available, accessible and secure. Administration of
applications including licence management. Monitor delivery according to
service levels. Implement corrective action for deviations to service levels.
Implement continuous improvement and innovation.
ENQUIRIES : Obert Masango Tel No: 012 845 7058
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026110@npa.gov.za
POST 11/93 : HEAD CONTROL PROSECUTOR 2 RECRUIT 2026/109
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630.per annum (Excluding Benefits) to R1 450 323.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level SU-1 to SU-2)
CENTRE : CPP: East London (Middledrift)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years’ post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Proficiency in prosecuting, guiding
investigation and giving instructions in reasonably complex or more difficult
common law and statutory offences in the lower courts. Proficiently drafting
complex charge sheets and other complex court documents. Must be able to
act independently without constant supervision and manage court and case
flow independently. Good management and administrative skills. General
computer literacy with excellent knowledge of Ms Word, PowerPoint, Excel ad
Outlook. High level of reliability. Ability to act with tact and discretion. Ability to
identify and handle confidential matters. Knowledge of relevant legislations,
policies, prescripts and procedures applicable in the public sector.
79
DUTIES : Manage, train, and give guidance to prosecutors. Study case dockets, decide
on the institution of and conduct criminal proceedings. Maintenance matters
and inquest of a general and more advanced nature in the Regional Court and
District Court. Prepare cases for court and draft charge sheets and other
proceedings for court, present and assist prosecutors to present the State’s
case in court, to lead witnesses, cross examine and address the court on inter-
alia, conviction, and sentence, and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the State. Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the
Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
Assist the Senior Public Prosecutor with the performance assessment of staff.
Manage, control and attend to the administration of the office of the District
Court. Promote partner integration, community involvement and customer
satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice.
ENQUIRIES : Viola Golden Tel No: 040 608 6830
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026109@npa.gov.za
POST 11/94 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R630 630 per annum (Excluding Benefits) to R1 450 323.per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level LP-5 to LP-6)
CENTRE : CPP: Gqeberha – Recruit 2026/94
CPP: Mthatha (Mt. Frere) – Recruit 2026/95
CPP: Mthatha (2 Posts) – Recruit 2026/96
CPP: East London – Recruit 2026/107
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law and statutory
offences in regional court. Good interpersonal skills. Good analytical skills.
Good presentation skills. Good project management skills. Valid driver’s
licence.
DUTIES : Study case dockets. Decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings. Draft charge sheets and other documents and represent the
State in all courts. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and address the court on
inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to conduct prosecutions on
behalf of the state. Perform general administrative duties of the office. Promote
partner integration, community involvement and customer satisfaction in
conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system. Perform all duties
related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct, Policy, and Directives
of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : CPP: Gqeberha Andiswa Tengile Tel No: 012 842 1450
CPP: Mthatha (Mt. Frere) and CPP: Mthatha Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: 047 501
2669
CPP: East London Chwayita Zwelibanzi Tel No: 040 608 6800
APPLICATIONS : CPP: Gqeberha e-mail: Recruit202694@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mthatha (Mt. Frere) e-mail: Recruit202695@npa.gov.za
CPP: Mthatha e-mail: Recruit202696@npa.gov.za
CPP: East London e-mail: Recruit2026107@npa.gov.za
POST 11/95 : REGIONAL COURT PROSECUTOR RECRUIT 2026/97
(Re-advert)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R630 630.per annum (Excluding Benefits) to R1 450 323 per annum (Total
Cost Package) (Level LP-5 to LP-6)
CENTRE : CPP: Mthatha (OCC)
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB. For serving prosecutors seeking promotion any appropriate legal
qualification. At least four (4) years post qualification legal experience.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. The incumbent must have the ability to act
independently or with minimum supervision. Proficiency in prosecuting.
Litigation in the regional court and management experience will be an added
advantage. Experience in guiding investigations and giving instructions in law
and statutory offences. The incumbent must be able to institute and conduct
80
criminal proceedings in respect of the provisions of the Prevention of
Organised Crime Act, Act 121 of 1998 within identified court. A valid driver’s
licence will be a requirement where applicable. Decision making skills. Must
have good administrative skills.
DUTIES : To institute and conduct criminal proceedings on behalf of the State, to perform
any act incidental thereto and to carry out the duties and functions assigned to
the prosecution under any Act and/ or the Policy Manual and / or any directives,
inter alia, study case dockets, decide on the institution of and conduct criminal
proceedings, including proceedings of an advanced or complex nature in the
dedicated sexual offences courts. Prepare cases for court, guide
investigations, and consult with witnesses, draft charge sheets and other court
documents, including documents that are more complex in nature. Present the
State’s case in court. Present evidence, cross-examine and address the court
on, inter alia, conviction and sentence. Lead witnesses, cross-examine and
address the court on inter alia, conviction and sentence and in general to
conduct prosecutions on behalf of the state. Perform general administrative
duties of the office. Promote partner integration, community involvement and
customer satisfaction in conjunction with partners in the criminal justice system.
Perform all duties related thereto in accordance with the Code of Conduct,
Policy, and Directives of the National Prosecuting Authority.
ENQUIRIES : Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: 047 501 2669
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202697@npa.gov.za
POST 11/96 : PROTECTOR
Office for Witness Protection
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 10)
CENTRE : Northern Cape (Kimberley) – Recruit 2026/92
Johannesburg – Recruit 2026/93
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF 7) or Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)
qualification. Must have at least two (2) years’ experience in the field of the
post. Must have police, military, or correctional services training. Must have
successfully completed a Tactical Police Training or Protection course.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. Knowledge and experience of undercover
work. Must be competent in at least two official languages of which one must
be English. Must be prepared to be available 24/7 and travel extensively, even
after-hours. Know how to account for public funds according to the PFMA.
Knowledge of Asset Management in the Public service, Knowledge of the
Constitution and Bill of Rights, National Crime Prevention Strategy, Victims
Charter, and Batho Pele Principles. Sound knowledge the Witness Protection
Act, 1998, Firearm control Act and Criminal Procedure Act, 1977. Sound
knowledge of the Public Service Act and Regulations, the PFMA, 1999 and
Treasury Regulations. Sound knowledge of the Minimum-Security Information
Standards (MISS). Must be prepared to undergo a Top-Secret security
clearance, a regular polygraph and voice stress analysis test. Strategic
capability and leadership. General management skills. People management
and empowerment. Administration skills. Good communication skills. Planning
and Prioritizing. Customer Focus and Responsiveness. Problem solving and
decision making. Candidate will be subjected to a competency assessment
which can include report writing, fire-arm competency, advance driving, and
fitness assessment. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide services regarding the admission of witnesses. Apply risk
management to avoid potential threats and apply counter surveillance
techniques. Handle and monitor Section 204 witnesses. Manage and protect
witnesses and related persons and ensure their safety and wellbeing. Attend
to day-to-day needs of witnesses and / or related persons. Render operational
services during Court protections, consultations, and other planned operations.
Render administrative and financial support services. Compile operational
documents. Compile reports and apply proper record keeping on all witness
related matters. Provide Asset management support services. Liaise and build
relationships with Stakeholders and all role players. Monitor the status of cases
and arrangements for consultations and court protections. Engage with
medical and counselling professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Northern Cape (Kimberley) C Immelman Tel No: 053 807 4561
Johannesburg MF Modisane Tel No: 012 845 6604
APPLICATIONS : Northern Cape (Kimberley) e mail: Recruit202692@npa.gov.za
81
Johannesburg e mail: Recruit202693@npa.gov.za
POST 11/97 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE RECRUIT 2026/98
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 9)
CENTRE : DPP: Grahamstown
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Business Administration / Public Administration / Finance or equivalent.
Minimum three (3) years relevant experience working in Finance. In-depth
knowledge of financial systems i.e BAS; LOGIS and PERSAL. In depth
knowledge of Asset, Fleet and Facilities Regulations, PFMA and National
Treasury Regulations and Public Service Act. Knowledge of NPA policies and
procedures relevant to the job functions. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Strategic
capability and leadership, general management skills, people management
and empowerment, administrative skills, communication skills, ability to plan
and prioritize work, customer focus and responsiveness, problem solving and
decision making. Ability to meet strict deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide financial support services to the region. Compilation of the budget,
manage expenditure against the budget, supervise the processing of invoices,
all claims, compile and submit monthly finance statistics/reports, implement
and monitor compliance with policies and procedures, manage petty cash,
maintain commitment register and perform monthly reconciliation for
BAS/PERSAL and any other relevant reconciliation. Provide supply chain
administration services to the region. Monitor the provision of Asset
Management services (including asset verification) within the region. Monitor
and manage the provision of Fleet Service within the region. Monitor the
provision of Facilities Management Services within the region. Manage staff in
the Finance/ Supply Chain/ Asset, Fleet and Facilities. Conduct quarterly
individual staff assessments. Perform any other duties as deemed necessary
by management.
ENQUIRIES : Nomfuneko Ntapane Tel No: 046 602 3000
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202698@npa.gov.za
POST 11/98 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER RECRUIT 2026/99
Office for Witness Protection
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF 6).
Minimum two years relevant experience in performing general administrative
functions. Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
Accountable and with Credibility. General computer literacy skills and
knowledge in programs such as MS Word, Excel and Outlook. Knowledge of
the PFMA Act, Treasury regulations and other government related legislations.
Able to handle and record cash transactions and know how to account for
public funds according to the PFMA. Knowledge of Accounting and Asset
Management. Good Communication, liaison and presentation skills. Ability to
act with tact and discreet. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Good
administration skills. Planning and prioritizing skills. Willing to undergo security
clearance. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide asset support services. Provide administrative support to fleet
management. Provide administrative support to asset and facilities
management. Document and office management support and Governance.
ENQUIRIES : KR Tsubella Tel No: 012 845 6925
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit202699@npa.gov.za
POST 11/99 : COURT PREPARATION OFFICER RECRUIT 2026/100
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 7)
CENTRE : CPP: East Rand
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B Degree (NQF level 7) or Three (3) year Diploma (NQF level
6) in Social Science/Behavioral Studies or equivalent. At least one (1) year
working experience which includes experience gained during training.
Demonstrable competency in acting Independently, Professionally,
82
Accountable and with Credibility. Sound co-ordination and counselling
experience. Ability to work well with children. Knowledge of the Criminal Justice
System. Excellent administrative skills, good communication skills and
problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide holistic and integrated care for the victims of crime, customers and
witnesses within the court environment. Prevent secondary traumatization by
providing a safe and secure environment in which to testify. Implement court
preparation for children and adult victims of crime, customers and witnesses
and perform all other duties in relation thereto. Liaise with and report to the
Prosecutor/Manager. Perform all duties in accordance with general accepted
court preparation technique.
ENQUIRIES : Nthakoana Mogale Tel No: 011 220 4227
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026100@npa.gov.za
POST 11/100 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK RECRUIT 2026/101
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 5)
CENTRE : CPP: Bloemfontein (Batho)
REQUIREMENTS Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook.
Flexibility. Document administration, writing skills and task time management
skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office of Senior
Prosecutor/District Court Control Prosecutor. Design and keep a well-
organized administrative system for the office. Execute a wide variety of
administrative tasks pertaining to the provision of support to line functionaries.
Draft correspondence to members of the public, other organisations, and State
departments. Liaise with administration with all matters pertaining to the
administrative functioning of the office. Provide administrative support to the
legal staff, pertaining to finance, logistical and human resources. Deliver mails,
and faxes within the office and render general administrative support such as
filing, photocopying, faxing, receiving, and dispatching documents.
ENQUIRIES : Lemmer Ludwick Tel No: 051 410 6001
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026101@npa.gov.za
POST 11/101 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK RECRUIT 2026/102 (2 POSTS)
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R228 321.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 5)
CENTRE : CPP: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound
planning and organizing skills, written and verbal communication. Good people
skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to act
independently. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS
Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Register incoming dockets and scanning thereof. Capturing information on the
electronic case register (ECR). Daily updating of information from court.
Provide dockets electronically to Defence on request of Prosecutors. Liaise
with Prosecutors in respect of matters dealt with. Verify what is happening in
court. Write up information to be captured on access. Contact Prosecutor for
information to reconcile to access. Generate reports from ECR for statistics
purposes. Generate various Statistics sheet. Draw up reports from Access,
Power BI and PowerPoint tools. Draw up excel spreadsheets for case
summaries. Draw reports from ECR for submission to supervisor, DPP and
National Office for monthly reporting. Update electronic case flow from
Prosecutors and SAPS from the ECR. Provide case administration and
documents management. Prepare and maintain files. Release appropriate
documents to any other interested party. Maintain E disclosure platform.
Handle Prosecutor caseloads.
ENQUIRIES : Nosiseko Mabaleka Tel No: 012 842 1465
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026102@npa.gov.za
83
POST 11/102 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK RECRUIT 2026/103
National Prosecutions Service
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 5)
CENTRE : CPP: Butterworth (Lady Frere)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Excellent
communication and administrative skills. Report writing skills, good verbal and
written communication skills. Customer focus and responsiveness. Excellent
administrative skills and problem-solving skills. Good analytical skills.
Computer skills such as MS word, Excel, Ms Office suite and Outlook.
Flexibility. Document administration, writing skills and task time management
skills.
DUTIES : Provide high quality administrative support to the office of Senior
Prosecutor/District Court Control Prosecutor. Design and keep a well-
organized administrative system for the office. Draft correspondence to
members of the public, other organisations, and State departments. Liaise with
corporate services with all matters pertaining to the administrative functioning
of the office. Provide administrative support to the legal staff, pertaining to
finance, logistical and human resources functions of the subcluster. Deliver
mails, and faxes within the office and render general administrative support
such as filing, photocopying, faxing, receiving, and dispatching documents.
Execute a wide variety of administrative tasks. Provide administrative support
to SPP and Prosecutor in the cluster ad provide logistical services thereof.
Receive correspondence dockets for the section. Collect information for civil
matters addressed to the unit/group. Do pends for docket and collect them.
Liaise with the public/ SAPS members and other justice stakeholders. Collate
and capture statistics, reports and submit to Chief prosecutors’ office.
ENQUIRIES : Tulisa Sibindlana Tel No: 047 501 2669
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026103@npa.gov.za
POST 11/103 : HUMAN RESOURCES CLERK RECRUIT 2026/104
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R228 321 .per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 5)
CENTRE : DPP: Grahamstown
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Good
interpersonal relations. Good administrative skills. Planning and organizing.
General computer literacy skills and knowledge in programs MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook. Good people skills. Strong interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide high level HRM&D administration to the region. Facilitate the
recruitment process. Administration of training and development programs.
Performance management administration. Provide HR advice to staff in the
region. PERSAL Administration. Compile and submit monthly statistics on HR
related functions. Maintain and administer PERSAL information including leave
applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mzikayise Toni Tel No: 046 602 3050
APPLICATIONS : e mail: Recruit2026104@npa.gov.za
POST 11/104 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK
National Prosecutions Services
SALARY : R228 321.per annum (Excluding Benefits) (Level 5)
CENTRE : CPP: West Rand Recruit 2026/105
CPP: Johannesburg - Recruit 2026/106 (2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Demonstrable competency in acting
Independently, Professionally, Accountable and with Credibility. Sound
planning and organizing skills, written and verbal communication. Good people
skills. Strong interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to act
independently. General computer literacy and knowledge of programs in MS
Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Generate reports from ECMS for statistical purposes. Receive and collate
statistics. Update court statistics registers on daily basis. Generate various
statistics sheet. Draw up reports from ECMS. Draw ECMS for submission to
84
supervisors and/or relevant NPA officials (CPP, DPP or National Office) for
monthly statistics. Conduct date verification i.e statistics verification. Update
electronic case register as and when additional data becomes available.
Communicate with Prosecutors in respect of matters dealt with. Validate what
is happening in court as and when required. Write up information to be
captured on ECMS. Contact Prosecutors for information to reconcile on ECMS.
Register incoming dockets and scanning thereof, capturing new cases on the
Electronic Case Management System (ECMS). Daily updating of information
from court. Maintain integrity and accuracy of the data captured on ECMS.
Provide dockets electronically or hard copies to Defence on request of
Prosecutors. Make of photocopies of charge sheets in finalised cases. Attend
to queries on case flow from Prosecutors and SAPS from the ECMS. Act as a
liaison between NPA and SAPS to obtain urgent dockets and to rectify the
dockets which cannot be retrieved on the ECMS. Communicate with NPA
stakeholders such as witnesses to remind of court dates, consultations and
provide complainants with outcomes of cases. Provide case administration and
document management. Prepare and maintain files. Release appropriate
documents to any other interested part.
ENQUIRIES : Mfumaneko Mkela Tel No: 011 220 4187
APPLICATIONS : CPP: West Rand e mail: Recruit2026105@npa.gov.za
CPP: Johannesburg e mail: Recruit2026106@npa.gov.za
85
ANNEXURE L
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office (Midrand): Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
Western Cape Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag X9020, Cape Town, 8000, or hand deliver
applications to the Office of the Chief Justice, Provincial Service centre 30
Queen Victoria Street, Cape Town.
Gauteng: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X7,
Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered to the 12th floor,
Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
Constitutional Court: Braamfontein: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief
Justice, Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to
the Office of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th
Road, Noordwyk, Midrand, 1685.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that applications for the positions of Registrar, Ref No:
2025/423/OCJ, Northern Cape Division of the High Court: Kimberly, and
Registrar (12 months contract) Ref no: 2025/424/OCJ, Northern Cape Division
of the High Court: Kimberly advertised on the Public Service Vacancy Circular
09 of 2026 on 13 March 2026 with closing date 27 March 2026 may be
submitted on: Northern Cape Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Private Bag X5043, Kimberley, 8300. Applications can also be
hand delivered to the High Court, Sol Plaaitjie Drive, Room B107, Kimberley,
closing date 07 April 2026.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
86
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/105 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SECURITY MANAGEMENT, REF NO: 2025/436/OCJ
SALARY : R896 436 - R1 055 958 per annum (Level 11), all-inclusive package. consisting
of 70%/ 75% basic salary and 30%/25% flexible portion that may be structured
in terms of the applicable rules. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a minimum of a three-years National
Diploma in Security and Risk Management/ equivalent qualification at NQF
level 6 with 360 credits as recognised by SAQA., Minimum of 5 years’
experience of which 3 years should be at ASD/Junior Management level in the
relevant field. A valid driver’s License, Grade A Private Security Industry
Regulation Authority (PSIRA) certificate. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Skills and Competencies: Knowledge and skills: Security Policy
and Procedures, Risk Management Policy, OHS Act, Knowledge of Vetting
Policy, Knowledge of Security Management Processes, Public service
regulations, 2016, Public Service Act, MISS, PFMA Act, Republic of South
Africa Constitution. Financial management, Presentation skills, Project
Management Skills, Planning and Organising Skills, Analytical and Decision-
Making Skills, Problem Solving Skills, Decision making skills, Strategic and
analytical skills, Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the effective and efficient use and deployment of
resources, manage event security for the Judiciary and the OCJ, manage
effective close and static security services to the Judiciary, manage security
assessments, investigations and recommend measures for the Judiciary and
manage the Sub Directorate
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. Z Sondlo Tel No: (011) 359 7400
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/436/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
87
POST 11/106 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION,
REF NO: 2025/431/OCJ
SALARY : R397 116 – R467 790 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a three (3) years National Diploma in
Management Sciences/ Human Resource Management/ Public Administration/
Public Management or equivalent relevant qualification at NQF level 6 as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in Human Resource
environment. A driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the Legislation/ Prescript and framework governing the Public
Service i.e., Public Service Act, Public Service Regulation, Labour Relations
Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Skills
Development Act, Collective Agreements, Codes of Remuneration and the
Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of HRM policies. Knowledge of
HR related standards, practices, processes and procedure. Knowledge of
Batho Pele Principles. Computer literacy, Analytical thinking, Problem solving
skills, Decision making skills, Motivational skills, Time management,
Presentation skills.
DUTIES : Implement recruitment and selection processes in the department. Align the
adverts according to job specifications and placement of the advert in a correct
format. Place adverts in various advertising platform (DPSA circular,
Government page, and Newspapers). Coordinate the shortlisting and
interview. Disseminate selection information to panel members. Communicate
with line managers regarding selection activities in line with the legislative
requirements. Implement and monitor compliance of selection processes
within the department. Serve as a scriber during shortlisting and interviews
process. Conduct personnel suitability checks and verification of qualifications
for recommended candidates. Ensure proper recording of all received
application forms. Arrange competency assessment for recommended
candidates for SMS posts. Ensure compliance with OCJ Recruitment and
Selection Policy and Public Service prescripts. Provide administrative support
within the sub-directorate. Schedule and organise meetings. Provide
secretariat support services to the meetings. Compile minutes and memos.
Handle incoming and outgoing office correspondence. Supervise and develop
staff. Ensure general supervision of employees. Allocate duties and perform
quality control on the work delivered by officials. Manage leave of staff. Advise
and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of employees. Ensure that all employees
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms S Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
: HR Related Enquiries: Mr K Mphela No: (010) 493 2527/2619
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2025/431/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 11/107 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/426/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division Of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a grade twelve (12) certificate. an LLB
Degree, Bachelor of Law or a minimum of 20 modules completed towards an
LLB or BA Law will serve as an added advantage. A minimum of two (2) years’
Secretarial experience. Experience in a Legal/ Court environment and a valid
driver’s license will also serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the
assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's
technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Proficiency in
English. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Administration and
organizational skills. Exceptional interpersonal skills. Ability to meet strict
deadlines and to work under pressure. Attention to detail. Customer care
88
service skills and excellent typing skills. Confidentiality and time management.
Computer literacy (MS Word) and research capabilities.
DUTIES : Provide general legal secretarial/ legal administrative duties to the Judge.
Typing (or formatting) of draft memorandums, directions, opinions, letters for
or by the Judge. Manage and type correspondence, judgements and orders for
the Judge (including Dictaphone typing). Arrange and diarise appointments,
meetings, official visits, make travel and accommodation arrangements for
circuit meetings etc with the relevant administration unit at the Court. Store,
keep and safeguard all case files and update the case files with postponements
orders and/ or made by the Judge. Update files with documents received.
Update exhibit and witness list in criminal matters. Perform digital recordings
of Court proceedings on urgent Court cases after hours or on circuit Court and
ensure the integrity of recordings. Accompany the Judge to Court and keep a
record of times (start and end times daily, including adjournments. Compile
court statistics daily and ensure accurate updates on the statistical tools.
Management of the Judge’s vehicle, logbook and servicing thereof. Compile
data and prepare reports and documents for assigned Judges as necessary,
including expense reports, continuing legal hours, financial disclosure
statements and case management. Arrange refreshments for the Judge and
his or her visitors and attend to their needs. Manage the Judge’s library and
the updating of loose-leaf publications. Attend to and execute requests from
the Judiciary in connection with cases and case-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2411
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2025/426/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 11/108 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2025/432/OCJ
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a minimum of 20
modules completed towards an LLB, BA Law or BCom Law Degree. Results
must accompany the application. A minimum of one (1) year secretarial
experience or as an Office Assistant. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and skills: Communication skills (verbal and written),
Administration skills, Planning and Organizational skills, Exceptional
Interpersonal skills, Customer service skills, Excellent Typing skills including
Dictaphone typing, Time management skills, Proficiency in Microsoft Office
Programs, Research capabilities, Problem solving, Good Judgment and
Decision-Making skills. Proficiency in English. Ability to Maintain
Confidentiality, Display maturity. Assertiveness and Confidence to interact at
all Levels. Maintain Positive attitude. Able to work under pressure. Ability to
multi-task. Ability to take charge. Flexible. Patience and kindness,
Professionalism and Maintain a positive attitude.
DUTIES : Ensure attendance and screening of all incoming and outgoing calls. Ensure
that appointments and meetings of the Judge are diarized. Ensure that the
judgments are typed and correspondences are filed accordingly in the right
sections. Ensure that signed Judgments and orders handed down in court or
virtually are sent to the Typist and the Library (Judgments only). Ensure that all
visitors are received, screened and their queries are attended to. Ensure that
all incoming and outgoing documents are recorded and filed. Ensure that
stationery for the Judge is ordered and collected. Ensure that before the
commencement of a Criminal matter the file/s are collected from the Registrar’s
office at the Criminal section and be made available to the Judge. Ensure that
the register of reviews is up to date and signed on receipt and return of the
reviews to the review Clerk. Ensure that the register/template of the reserved
judgment is updated and notifying the Statistics Officer as well as the office of
the Judge President when judgment has been handed down. Ensure that the
transcribed judgments from transcribers reach the Judges for approval and
signature. Prepare court rolls for opposed motion and urgent Court and
distribute to stakeholders. Ensure that the Heads of arguments from various
89
stakeholders are received filed and verified. Inform all parties involved via email
and or telephonically of time and date when reserved judgements will be
handed down. Ensure that the bench book of the Judge is prepared and files
are taken by Ushers to Court before the commencement of the proceedings.
Ensure that all stakeholders involved are present in Court before
commencement of proceedings. Ensure that all cases are called on record as
per the Court roll by means of calling the case number and the parties’ names,
before a Judge can allow parties to start with their matters. Record the outcome
of each matter. Before end of proceedings to verify that each matter on the roll
has been called and is furnished with an outcome. Ensure that the correct Oath
ID or declaration is administered in Court, when required. Ensure that in the
Criminal Court exhibits are handled, controlled and noted professionally.
Prepare an exhibit bundle during and after Court proceedings whereby exhibits
are flagged and marked as per the Judges instructions. Ensure that the correct
order is endorsed on the file, on Court Online and or on Case-lines after it is
granted by Judge in Court. Ensure that all the travel, accommodation
arrangements are in order on time, attend to sign the documents being signed
prior approval. Ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or before the
5th of every month to the Transport Officer. Ensure that the car is booked for
either maintenance and service, receive the pre-authorisation for the Judge’s
vehicle. Remind Judge of the invoices so that the submission of the S&T claims
can be processed. Ensure the submissions of Cell phone and 3G data claims
for process purposes. Ensure that Court roll/s is submitted to the Statistical
Officer. Ensure that all updates on the loose leafs in the Judge’s library are
attended to (in dispute).
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. Z Sondlo Tel No: (011) 359 7400
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2025/432/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 11/109 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2025/427/OCJ (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 - R382 959.per annum (Level 07) The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Western Cape Division Of The High Court: Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Interpreting or
equivalent qualification in the field of languages at NQF level 6 with 360 credits
as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of one (01) year practical experience in
Interpreting environment or Grade 12 certificate with at least ten (10) years’
practical experience in Interpreting environment. Proficiency in English and
Afrikaans, proficiency in any other indigenous language will serve as an added
advantage i.e. Xhosa, Sotho, Tswana or Zulu. A valid driver’s license will serve
as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts and Regulations.
Knowledge of culture. Knowledge of subject area. Know how to translate and
be able to keep time frame. Computer literacy (MS Office). Effective
communication skills (written and verbal). Time Management. Good
interpersonal relations. Planning and organizing skills. Decision-making skills.
Analytical thinking. Excellent English language skills. Problem solving.
Flexible, Self-driven and Motivated. Ability to work under pressure. Accuracy
and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services. Interpret in Criminal proceedings, Civil
proceedings, Older Persons Act matters, Family Protection from Harassment
Act matters, Labour Court matters, Maintenance Act matters, Child Justice
matters, Inquests and Equality Court matters. Interpret in pre-trial proceedings
and consultations. Liaise with Supervisor for foreign language interpreters.
Interpret from source target language during court proceedings for pre-trials
consultations. Interpret non-verbal gestures, dramatization and confessions.
Engage with the Judiciary to confer on the readiness and/or performance in
Court. Render interpreting for probono desk. Render audible and clear
interpreting from source to target language without embellishment or omissions
while preserving the language. Convey the correct language in accordance
with the language usage of the speaker. Control the speaker and ensure that
the citations are interpreted correctly. Translate legal documents and exhibits.
90
Study and analyse the source documents. Conduct the necessary research
and consult with the relevant parties. Ensure accurate cite translation of
documents. Check, edit and revise the translated documents. Translate
mechanically recorded audio material. Develop terminology and provide
support in the reconstruction of records. Accumulate terminology and develop
a database. Populate the terms and respective meaning in the glossary
register. Gather all trial documents necessary to aid interpretation. Coin words
and Perform specific line and administrative support functions to the Judiciary,
Court Manager and Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms N Chwethiso Tel No: (021) 480 2411
: HR Related Enquiries: Mr SD Hlongwane Tel No: (021) 469 4032
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2025/427/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 11/110 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 2025/433/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement
CENTRE : Constitutional Court: Braamfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. A valid Driver’s
license. Knowledge and understanding of record management and archive
policies will serve as an advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine
the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Electronic Communication
Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Archived and Records
Management (NARS), Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA),
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Communication skills, Report
writing skills, organizing skills, Excellent customer skills, Interpersonal skills,
High level of confidentiality, work well in a team, pay attention to details, Take
initiative, Reliability
DUTIES : Maintain the registry and ensure the safekeeping of all documentation/records
in the Private Office in line with the relevant legislation and policies. Render
clerical, secretarial duties and stocktaking in the component. Assist in protocol
and travel arrangements and transport and logistics duties in the Private Office.
Provide auxiliary services in the Private Office, including driving, handling,
correspondence and ad-hoc duties. Provide financial and human resource
administration support services.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. C Martin Tel No: (011) 359 7400
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. K Mokgatlhe Tel No: (011) 359 7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2025/433/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 11/111 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK, REF NO: 2025/434/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division Of High Court: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. A three (3) years’
relevant qualification (National Diploma at NQF level 6) with 360 credits as
recognized by SAQA and a minimum of one (1) year administration experience
preferably in a court environment will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of working procedures in terms of the working environment, Knowledge of
registry processes and practice, Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment, Knowledge and
understanding of legislative frameworks governing the Public Service,
Knowledge of Filling system, Mail procedure manual, Promotion of access to
information Act and National archives, Batho Pele Principles, Computer
Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), Communication skills, Numeracy,
Interpersonal skills, Problem solving and analysis skills, Time management
skills, Administrative skills, ability to work under pressure, self-motivated,
91
accuracy, ability to work independently, attention to detail, teamwork and
Flexible.
DUTIES : Answering of telephone calls and resolution of Court Online and/or Case lines
queries. Attending to walk-in clients and assisting with resolution of Court
Online and/or Case lines queries. Registration of Court Online and/or Case
lines Users, Initiating and/or Starting cases, logging of technical issues which
could not be resolved to secondary support, providing information on the usage
of the systems. Assisting officials with resolution of Court Online and/or Case
lines. Assisting officials with the logging of calls to secondary support Carrying
out of Registrar’s instructions in the running of the office Capturing and
submission of statistics related to Court Online and Case lines. Enrolment of
Civil Matters on Court Rolls. Issuing of/civil processes and Applications.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2025/434/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 11/112 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (LEGAL) REF NO: 2025/435/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950.per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Gauteng Provincial Service Centre: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. LLB Degree, one
(1) year experience and a valid driver’s license will be an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge
of public services legislation, prescripts and regulations. Library and
information science matter. Procedures and processes. Knowledge of law
subjects and legal phrases. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as
the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Knowledge of the MS Office package, with experience in word processing,
Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office Administration.
Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing Public
Service. Knowledge of Batho Pele principles. Communication skills (verbal &
written). Problem solving skills, Good public relations skills, Monitoring and
analytical skills, Computer Literacy skills (MS Teams), Planning and organizing
skills, Report writing skills and Typing skills
DUTIES : Provide administrative functions to the regional court President/ Chief
Magistrate. Compile court performance statistics monthly/quarterly/annually or
as required by Regional court president/ Chief Magistrate. Verify and validate
statistics. Provide support with the production of the court performance reports.
Provide support to case flow management. Forward case flow challenges
report to relevant stakeholders as it is reported and the monthly incidents to
each relevant stakeholder. Provide support with logistics for case flow
management meetings (minute taking, compilation of meeting packs,
distribution of agendas and minutes). Provide support with the gathering of
statistics from all courts. Provide support in the regional court registrar. Provide
support to Assistant Registrars in civil issuing offices with issuing, capturing
etc. Provide support in Regional Court Registrar as requested with reports and
inspections. Provide support with the production of the court performance
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms D Makgaka Tel No: (010) 494 8459
HR Related Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2025/435/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
92
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
It is our intention to promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Public Service through the
filling of this post and candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application, quoting the relevant reference number, to the
Director-General, Department of Social Development, Private Bag X901,
Pretoria, 0001. Physical Address: HSRC Building, 134 Pretorius Street In the
event of hand delivery of applications, applicants must sign an application
register book as proof of submission. E-mail applications must be sent to the
following email address: Chief Director: Human Capital Management- e-
recruit.CDHCM@dsd.gov.za; Senior Organisational Design Practitioner- e-
recruit.SODP@dsd.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr S Boshielo
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
NOTE : Curriculum vitae with a detailed description of duties, the names of two referees
accompany your signed application for employment (Z83). Short listed
candidates for a post will be required to submit certified documents on the date
of the interview. Applicants are advised that from 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form is effective and must be completed in
full, failure to use the new Z83 will result in disqualification. The new form can
be downloaded online at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. Applicants applying for
SMS posts are required to successfully complete the Certificate for entry into
the SMS and full details can be sourced by following the link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Applicants are expected to pay for the course and may enroll for it at a cost of
R400.00. The duration of the course is 120 hours. The nominated candidate
must submit the pre-entry Certificate as proof that the course has been
completed within 15 days from the conclusion of the interviews. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants applying for SMS posts will,
following the interview and technical exercise, be recommended by the
selection panel to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. The successful candidate will sign an annual performance
agreement, complete a financial discloser form and will also be required to
undergo a security clearance. Candidates nominated for posts on salary levels
2 - 12 may be subjected to a competency assessment during the selection
process. If the candidate is applying for an OSD post, certificates of service
must be submitted on the date of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility
to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested documents will result in your
application not being considered. Personnel suitability checks will be
conducted on shortlisted candidates, and the appointment is subject to positive
outcomes of the checks. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Applications received after the closing date will not be taken
into consideration. If you have not been contacted within three months after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Candidates requiring additional information regarding the
advertised post may direct their enquiries to the person as indicated above.
Internal applicants must submit and register their employment applications at
the register book in the DSD reception area for the attention of Mr S Boshielo.
DSD reserves the right to cancel the filling/ not to fill a vacancy that was
advertised during any stage of the recruitment process.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/113 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: I1/A/2026
Branch: Corporate Support Services
93
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum This inclusive remuneration package consists of a
basic salary, the states’ contribution to the Government Employees Pension
Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured i.t.o. the applicable rules.
The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement and to sign an employment contract.
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 qualification in Human Resource Management or
Industrial Psychology as recognized by SAQA PLUS 5 years’ experience at
senior management level in the relevant field. Knowledge and understanding
of the relevant Public Service Act and Regulation. Knowledge and
understanding of SET’s, SAQA, processes and curriculum development.
Knowledge and understanding of performance management frameworks and
best practice. Knowledge and understanding of Employment Equity Act,
Labour Relations Act. Knowledge and understanding of Treasury Regulation
and PFMA. Knowledge and understanding of dispute resolution, collective
bargaining and CCMA process. Knowledge and understanding of EHWP.
Knowledge and understanding of White Paper on Social Welfare. Knowledge
and understanding of relevant policies and strategies pertaining to SSP.
Understanding of National Gender Policy and Framework. Competencies
needed: Strategic capability and leadership. Policy analysis and development.
Budget planning and monitoring. Service delivery innovation. Programme and
project management. Financial management. Information and knowledge
management. Communication (verbal and written). Problem solving and
change management. People management and empowerment. Client
orientation and customer focus. Stakeholder management. Presentation and
facilitation. Risk management. Conflict management. Monitoring and
evaluation. Quality management. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations.
Ability to work under pressure. Innovative and creative. Ability to work in a team
and independently. Adaptability. Emotional intelligence. Independent thinker.
Cost consciousness. Honesty and integrity. Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Manage and facilitate the provision of human resource
management services. Manage and coordinate the provision of employee
relations and wellness services. Manage and facilitate the provision of training,
development and performance management services. Manage and facilitate
the development, review and monitor implementation of policies, regulations,
frameworks, guidelines, norms and standards in relation to Social Service
Professionals. Manage the implementation and mainstreaming of gender and
disability throughout the organisation. Oversee, manage and report on the
budget, human resources, and performance of the Chief Directorate in line with
the set regulations and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr XA Brukwe, Tel: (012) 312-7665/7866
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, Coloured and White
males and African, Coloured and White females as well as persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 11/114 : SENIOR ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN PRACTITIONER REF NO: I1/B/2026
Directorate: Organisational Design and Human Resource Planning
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : HSRC Building, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year Degree/National Diploma in Management Service/
Industrial Psychology/ Operations Management/ Organisational Development
as recognized by SAQA. 1-2 years’ experience in the Organisational Design
(Work study and Job Evaluation) field. Knowledge and understanding of the
Public Service Act. Knowledge and understanding of Public Service
Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of DPSA Directives. Knowledge
and understanding of Job Description guidelines. Knowledge and
understanding of Job Evaluation guidelines. Knowledge and understanding of
Organisational Design toolkit. Knowledge and understanding of Code of
Remuneration. Knowledge and understanding of relevant departmental
policies. Knowledge and understanding of Visio and Org Plus systems.
Knowledge and understanding of the Job Evaluation System. Knowledge and
understanding of DPSA Organisational Guidelines on Transformation and
restructuring. Knowledge and understanding of Change Management.
Knowledge and understanding of work measurement techniques, procedures,
and methods. Knowledge and understanding of costing tools and
methodologies. Competencies needed: Job design and analysis. Computer
94
literacy. People management. Planning and Organising. Communication
(written and verbal). Problem solving. Negotiation skills. Client orientation and
customer focus. Report writing. Policy analysis and implementation. Project
administration. Facilitation and presentation. Presentation skills. Attributes:
Accuracy. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Friendly and trustworthy. Diplomacy. Self-starter.
Confidentiality. Systematic.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Conduct organizational design to improve efficiency and
productivity. Conduct Job Evaluation to determine the correct salary grading.
Develop, review and maintain Job Descriptions. Map, review and update
Business Processes and Standard Operating Procedures. Implement Change
Management activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Ramathunya, Tel: (012) 312-7195
NOTE : In terms of the Department’s employment equity targets, African, Coloured,
Indian and White males; Coloured, Indian and White females as well as
persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
95
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF SPORT, ARTS AND CULTURE (DSAC)
APPLICATIONS : Applicants must use this link or QR code below to access DSAC E-Recruitment
System. https://erecruit.dsac.gov.za/public/login_test.php Hand delivery:
Sealed envelope addressed to Chief Director: Human Resource Management
and Development, Sechaba House, 202 Madiba Street, Pretoria Central.
Postal mail to The Chief Director: Human Resource Management and
Development, Private Bag X897, Pretoria, 0001.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 16:00
NOTE : Please create a user profile by completing all required personal information
and setting up your login credentials. Once registration is complete, log in to
the system and you will be directed to the “Welcome Page”. From the Welcome
Page, you may browse all vacant positions opportunities listed below.
Applicants are strongly advised to complete all information required for the
electronic Z83 form on the system before applying for any position. The Z83
form has been adopted into the system, and applications cannot be processed
unless all mandatory fields are completed. After completing your profile and
Z83 information, you may apply for any relevant advertised position through
the system. Ensure that your application is fully completed and submitted
before the closing date, as incomplete or late applications will not be
considered. Once submitted, the system will provide a confirmation message
indicating that your application has been successfully received. The e-
Recruitment portal is also accessible via smartphones and other mobile
devices. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to bring certified copies of ID, Driver’s
licence (where required) and qualifications on or before the interview. Should
you be in possession of any foreign qualification(s), it must be accompanied by
an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA);
Applicants must be South African citizens. Shortlisted candidates must avail
themselves for a virtual or in-person panel interview at a date and time
determined by DSAC. The applicant should make own arrangement for access
to internet connectivity and equipment for this purpose. Applicants must note
that pre-employment checks and references will be conducted once they are
shortlisted. The appointment is also subject to a positive outcome on these
checks, including security clearance, security vetting, qualification/study
verification, citizenship verification, financial/asset record check, previous
employment verification and criminal record. If an applicant wishes to withdraw
an application, it must be done in writing. We encourage all applicants to
declare any criminal and/or negative credit records. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment, the logistics of which will be communicated by the
Department. The successful candidate will be required to enter into an
employment contract and sign an annual performance agreement. The
Department of Sport, Arts and Culture is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. The employment decision shall be informed by the Employment
Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its Employment Equity targets. It is
the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of these posts. Should the Department not be able to recruit
candidates from disadvantaged groups, other groups will be considered for
appointment. The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment
and to use other recruitment processes, thus withdrawing this advert by notice
on its communication channels. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their interest.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/115 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PARLIAMENTARY AND CABINET SUPPORT REF
NO: DSAC-10/03/2026
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive total package)
96
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate or equivalent
qualification; Three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/ Degree (NQF level
7) as recognised by SAQA in Public Relations, Public Administration, Media
Studies, Office Administration or any relevant Administration qualification; 3-5
years relevant experience, at least 3 years at Middle Management (Assistant
Director) level in administrative, political and parliamentary processes in the
office of the executive authority; A valid driver’s licence; Competencies:
Knowledge of Ministry operations, policies and practices and relevant
legislations. Proven management competencies. Sound knowledge of the
respective communication media. Broad knowledge and understanding of the
functional areas covered by the executive authority’s portfolio. Language skills
and the ability to communicate with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. Knowledge of the political and Parliamentary/ legislative
processes in South Africa. Computer literacy. Planning and good organizational
skills. Good communication and interpersonal relations. Good presentation
and networking skills. Analytical and interpretation skills.
DUTIES : To provide administrative support to the executive authority on matters relating
to Parliament/the legislature and Cabinet/executive council. To monitor events
in Parliament/the legislature to identify matters that have a bearing on the
portfolio of the executive authority: To liaise with structures like portfolio and
standing committees on matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the
executive authority and brief departments on decisions taken; To monitor
events in Cabinet/Executive Council to identify matters that have a bearing on
the portfolio of the executive authority: To peruse documents like minutes of
Cabinet and cluster committees and monitor meetings of the executive
structures to identify matters that have a bearing on the portfolio of the
executive authority; To liaise with structures, by attending meetings, like cluster
and cabinet committees. To render an efficient and effective parliamentary
service. To facilitate timeous and appropriate responses to parliamentary
questions in the format prescribed by Parliament/the legislature and ensure
departmental representation in parliamentary events. To compile cabinet
memoranda, speeches, submissions, briefing notes and other documents as
required. To gazette and table draft bills emanating from the portfolio of the
executive authority. To provide advice and support in terms of policy and
procedure to the department in respect of key parliamentary events, like the
tabling of the budget vote of the executive authority. To co-ordinate and control
movements between the Pretoria and Cape Town offices for Parliamentary
sessions (where applicable): To manage and oversee the packing, dispatching
and unpacking of official documents and equipment in Pretoria and Cape Town;
To manage the movement of households to and from Cape Town. To study the
relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/ policies and other
documents and ensure that the application thereof is understood properly;
Remain up to date with regards to the applicable prescripts/policies and
procedures that apply to his/her work terrain; Remain abreast with the
procedures and processes applicable to the executive authority.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Pule Tel No: (012) 441 3422
NOTE : Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males and Females and White Males and
Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 11/116 : SECURITY ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (HPP) REF NO: DSAC-11/03/2026
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (level 7)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate/Matric Certificate /Grade 12 Certificate/ NQF level 4 or
equivalent qualification. A minimum three-year National Diploma (NQF level 6)/
Degree (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Security Management,
Security Risk Management, Safety and Security Management or any relevant
security related qualification. Grade A Certificate registered with Private
Security Industry Regulatory Authority. 1-2 years relevant experience in
security administration management environment. Knowledge of security
access control procedures. Knowledge of measures for the control and
movement of equipment and stores. Knowledge and understanding in
operating fire detection and extinguishing systems. Knowledge of prescribed
security legislations and procedures (e.g., Minimum Information Security
Standards, Minimum Physical Security Standards, Control of Access to Public
Premises and Vehicles Act, National Strategic Intelligence Act, Protection of
97
Information Act, etc.) and the authority of security officers under these
documents. Knowledge of the relevant security and emergency procedures.
Planning and organizing skills. Good communication and interpersonal
relations. Computer literacy. Presentation skills. Problem Solving and Analysis
Client Orientation and Customer Focus.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate security documentation and
administrative processes in line with departmental security policy. Maintain and
update security registers (access cards, incident reports, visitor logs, etc.).
Assist in compiling reports on physical, personnel, and information security
incidents. Monitor and ensure compliance with security service providers
contract and service level agreements. Maintain classified document registers
and ensure secure handling, storage, and disposal of sensitive information.
Ensure availability and maintenance of security-related materials and
equipment. Assist to process payments, quotations, and procurement for
security-related goods and services. Provide secretarial support services
within the Sub-Directorate. Ensure effective records management within the
Sub-Directorate. Coordinate logistical arrangements for security meetings and
events. Maintain filing systems and ensure that all security administrative
documents are properly archived filed. Facilitate programming and
deactivation of access cards and keys of the building. Ensure that employees
have access cards and temporary cards for service providers/ visitors. Assist
in the coordination and monitoring of security services (guarding, access
control, Closed Circuit Television, and alarm systems). Monitor and maintain
records of key control systems, office and building access. Ensure safe storage
and secure handling of building and office keys. Support senior security officers
in implementing and maintaining access control procedures. Participate in
periodic inspections of departmental premises to identify potential security risks
and vulnerabilities. Conduct key audits and inspections to verify compliance
with security protocols. Investigate incidents of lost or stolen keys. Ensure
proper reporting and implementation of corrective measures after a security
breach has occurred or incident took place. Facilitate duplication and
replacement of lost keys in line with approved procedures. Maintain a key
register and ensure all transactions are properly recorded. Issue security
vetting and screening applications forms to employees. Keep accurate records
of security clearance status for departmental officials. Distribute vetting
application forms to new employees and those with expired clearance
certificates. Facilitate the screening and verification of contract security
personnel. Manage the issuing and record-keeping of vetting certificates from
the State Security Agency (SSA). Ensure completed vetting applications,
clearance certificates are collected and delivered to the relevant unit and/or
employees. Maintain a database of vetted personnel and ensure periodic
updates. Provide reports on vetting status and outstanding applications. Assist
in the review and implementation of security policies. Ensure implementation
of relevant circulars and directives. Distribute updated security guidelines and
reminders on compliance requirements. Participate in security risk
management exercises and recommend improvements. Provide support
during security awareness and training programmes for employees, visitors,
and service providers. Assist in implementing corrective measures. Participate
in health and safety meetings and initiatives within the department. Participate
in evacuation drills and assist with roll call at assembly points. Report safety
hazards or security risks identified during routine operations. Assist Health and
Safety representatives to promote a safe working environment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K. Makena Tel No: 012 441 3214
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males and Females, Indian Males, White Males
Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
98
ANNEXURE O
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref no. must
appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application may not
be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources Management,
Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic Campus, corner of
Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 15 April 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. the dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). the dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/117 : DIRECTOR: ECONOMIC REGULATORY BODIES (COMPETITION
OVERSIGHT) (T&CB-020)
Re-advertised
Overview: To promote synergy between government economic development
policies and the functioning of competition authorities.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the SAQA Law/ Finance/ Public
Management/ Economics or relevant qualification. Experience: Minimum: 5
years’ experience at a middle / senior managerial level in an economic
environment in public/private sector. Key Requirements: Proven experience
overseeing or engaging with competition authorities or regulatory bodies.
Demonstrable experience in regulatory policy development, legislative review,
or regulatory interventions. Experience analysing and reporting on entity
performance, annual reports and strategic/APP documents. Experience in
stakeholder engagement and managing high-level consultations with
government, entities and industry. Monitoring & evaluation experience,
including designing M&E frameworks and producing evidence-based reports.
Experience preparing technical/regulator briefs, policypapers and
presentations for senior management. Project and programme management
experience, including tracking deliverables and managing multiple files.
Financial management experience (budget holder or input to budgets) and
99
familiarity with programme-level budgeting (~R3m). People management
experience including supervision, task allocation and performance
management (direct reports). Strong analytical, research and report-writing
skills with the ability to synthesise regulatory evidence. Experience
coordinating inter-governmental or multi-stakeholder processes and
consultations. Computer literacy (MS Office) and experience maintaining
registers, databases or monitoring tools. Knowledge of the Competition Act and
related regulatory/policy frameworks, and public sector governance (PFMA,
Public Service Regulations).
DUTIES : Oversee and report on the performance of the competition authorities. Monitor
compliance of competition authorities with legislative requirements and
governance standards. Analyse strategic plans, APPs, quarterly and annual
reports and produce performance assessments. Coordinate regular
consultations with competition authorities to promote alignment and good
corporate governance. Prepare oversight reports and presentations for senior
management and oversight structures. Advice the department on the
regulatory interventions required Facilitate alignment of competition authorities’
mandates, planning and budgets with departmental priorities. Encourage
effective planning, budgeting and financial management within entities and
advice on corrective actions. Develop and review competition policy positions,
regulatory frameworks and, where applicable, initiate regulatory interventions.
Coordinate inputs to ensure delivery targets align with the Department’s APP.
Stakeholder management. Foster collaborations with stakeholders
(government departments, entities, industry and others) and manage strategic
engagements. Coordinate the dtic’s inputs to consultations, market inquiries
and policy dialogues to ensure policy coherence. Manage bilateral meetings,
forums and communication of findings, decisions and recommendations to
relevant stakeholders. Monitoring and Evaluation. Develop and implement
M&E frameworks for oversight programmes, investigations and regulatory
interventions. Monitor compliance with competition legislation, regulations and
policy directives across sectors and markets. Evaluate the effectiveness and
impact of enforcement actions and interventions and produce evidence-based
reports. Identify trends, risks and make recommendations to senior
management based on analytical findings. Directorate Management. Provide
strategic leadership and direction for the Directorate, assign tasks and monitor
pending actions. Manage staff supervision, training and development and
ensure quality assurance in workflow management. Provide inputs into APPs,
targets and budgets; monitor financial and operational risks and report
regularly to senior management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, White males and persons with disabilities.
POST 11/118 : DIRECTOR: LEGAL INTERNATIONAL TRADE & INVESTMENT (REF:
TRADE-082)
Overview: To provide legal advice on complex international trade and
investment negotiations, and on obligations and rights arising from
international agreements. To manage litigation on international trade and
investment disputes and to develop and review legislation related to
international trade administration, selected intellectual property rights, and
investment protection.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Law. 5 years’ relevant
experience at a middle/senior managerial level in Law, Politics or Economics
environment. Key Requirements: Proven experience providing legal advice on
international trade and investment agreements. Experience drafting, legally
vetting and finalising negotiating positions and treaty texts. Experience leading
or participating in negotiating teams in bilateral, regional and multilateral fora
(e.g., WTO, AfCFTA, EPA). Experience managing and coordinating dispute
settlement processes under international agreements. Demonstrable research
and analytical skills with experience producing legal opinions, technical notes
and briefings. Experience coordinating inputs from internal branches, State
Law Advisors and external counsel. Project and case management experience,
including managing multiple files to deadlines and quality standards.
Experience supervising legal staff and managing directorate reporting and
100
budgets. Stakeholder engagement experience with government, parastatals,
industry and international partners. Excellent written and verbal communication
skills and proficiency with MS Office.
DUTIES : Strategies, policies and procedures: Manage the development and review of
international trade legal strategies, policies and procedures. Manage
implementation of policies and the development of legal frameworks for trade
administration, investment protection and selected IP legislation. Research
and Analysis: Manage quarterly legal and performance analysis on
international trade and investment matters. Provide legal research and
consolidate findings to inform negotiating positions and policy development.
Lead technical negotiations on trade, investment and dispute settlement:
Prepare draft texts and South African positions for investment and trade
negotiations in bilateral, regional and multilateral settings. Legally vet
negotiation texts (including IP and dispute settlement provisions) and
coordinate inputs from stakeholders. Manage disputes arising under
international trade and investment agreements. Stakeholder management:
Create platforms for continuous engagement with internal and external
stakeholders, including diplomatic counterparts and industry. Liaise and
network with relevant stakeholders and lead consultations to conclude
partnership agreements. Directorate Management: Manage financial and
human resources of the directorate, including supervision and staff
development. Oversee strategic planning and execution of the operational plan
for the directorate. Monitoring and Evaluation: Manage review of trade legal
policies and benchmark against international best practice. Provide support for
implementation of programmes and report on delivery and impact
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva,Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African male,
Coloured female and White male candidates as well as persons with
disabilities.
POST 11/119 : DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT (REF: CMSB-137)
Overview: To provide strategic leadership, tactical oversight, and operational
management of the Department’s ICT infrastructure environment that enables
the dtic to fulfil its mandate.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification at NQF level 7 in Computer Science, Informatics, Computer
Engineering, or a relevant qualification. 5 years of relevant experience at a
middle/senior managerial level in an ICT environment. Key Requirements:
Senior managerial experience leading ICT infrastructure, platforms, and
operations (5+ years). Proven experience managing enterprise servers,
storage, networks (fixed & wireless), telephony, and end user computing.
Experience in capacity planning, performance optimisation, backup, disaster
recovery, and business continuity. Experience managing S-LAs, OLAs, and
vendor/service provider relationships (including SITA/GITOC). Experience in
infrastructure configuration, change, incident, and problem management.
Experience preparing technical and strategic inputs for MTEF, business plans,
and budget submissions. Experience managing large ICT programme budgets
and assets. Strong stakeholder engagement with executives, campus tenants,
SOEs, and other government entities. People management experience,
including building technical capability and managing multidisciplinary teams.
Knowledge of IT governance, security standards, Microsoft platform, operating
systems, and system administration.
DUTIES : Strategic Planning & Alignment: Lead multiyear infrastructure strategy and
roadmap; translate strategy into operational plans and KPIs. Provide inputs
into business planning, MTEF and budget pro-cesses, monitor implementation.
Infrastructure Platforms & Technology Management: Manage physical, virtual
and cloud server platforms, storage and databases. Oversee networks,
telephony, collaboration platforms and end user device lifecycle management.
Service Management, Configuration & Performance: Govern configuration
management and infrastructure baselin-es; lead capacity planning and
performance optimisation. Manage incident, problem and change processes
and ensure effective backup, DR and business continuity services. Vendor,
SLA & Outsourcing Governance: Define and monitor SLAs/OLAs with external
providers and internal units; manage vendor performance and escalations.
Stakeholder Management: Engage executives, business units, SITA, GITOC,
101
SSA and campus tenants; prepare infrastructure performance and governance
reports. Directorate Management & Capability Development: Manage financial
resources, assets and human resources of the directorate; promote innovation,
accountability and service excellence
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African males
and persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/120 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EXPORT INFORMATION (REF: EDP&OIB-099)
Overview: To manage the development, coordination and implementation of
national export outreach, dissemination and information systems, market
intelligence products and trade opportunity services aimed at strengthening
exporters’ access to strategic market insights and resources, identifying global
trade opportunities, and supporting the expansion, diversification and
competitiveness of South Africa’s export base.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (level 12) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Economics,
International Trade, Business Management, Public Administration,
Development Studies or a relevant qualification. 3-5 years managerial
experience in implementing export development programmes or support
services, monitoring, evaluation and performance reporting within public or
private environment. Key Requirements: Proven managerial experience (3-5
years) leading export information, outreach, communication, and
dissemination related to trade intelligence and export development.
Experience managing national information systems, portals or databases and
ensuring data integrity and governance. Experience in managing national
systems, platforms or mechanisms for the monitoring, reporting and resolution
of Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs). Experience developing market intelligence
products (market briefs, national export guides) and packaging exporter
information. Experience sourcing, validating and managing international trade
opportunities/Leads and buyer–exporter matchmaking services. Experience
designing and implementing M&E frameworks, indicators and performance
reporting. Experience in stakeholder management with emerging exporters,
export councils, chambers, provincial agencies, diplomatic missions and
industry bodies. Experience managing budgets and programmes resources
(monitoring and recommending budget allocations). Proven people
management experience including supervision of ASD/TIA teams and staff
development. Experience coordinating system integration and interoperability
with partner platforms. Strong report writing, presentation and communication
skills; proficiency in MS Office and data tools. Project management skills,
analytical capability and evidenceba-sed decision making. Willingness to travel
domestically and internationally as required.
DUTIES : Manage Export Awareness and O-utreach Programmes: Plan and manage an
annual calendar of export awareness and outreach activities. Coordinate
execution of outreach programmes and represent the department at export
events. Monitor, analyse and report on programme performance and
outcomes. Develop & Utilise Export Information Tools and Resources: Oversee
production and maintenance of National Export Guides, market briefings and
trade intelligence products. Manage design, enhancement and
operationalisation of the national export information hub (physical & digital).
Manage Trade Opportunities & Matchmaking Services: Manage sourcing,
validation and dissemination of international trade opportunities. Oversee
buyer–exporter matchmaking, quality assurance and verification of
exporter/buyer credentials. Manage National Exporters’ Database & Portals:
Govern the National Exporters’ Database, ensure data integrity, security and
interoperability with partner systems. Drive adoption through stakeholder
engagement, capacity building and platform promotion. Monitoring, Evaluation
& Reporting: Design M&E frameworks, conduct performance reviews and
compile evidencebased reports. Perform diagnostic assessments and
lessons learned exercises to inform programme improvement. Stakeholder
Management, Afte-rcare & Partnerships. Build and maintain strategic
partners-hips with export councils, chambers, diplomatic missions and industry.
Manage referrals, aftercare and escalation of exporter issues to relevant
102
authorities. SubDirectorate Management: Manage human, financial and other
resources; provide inputs to operational plans. Lead recruitment, performance
management an-d staff development; coordinate reporting and targets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured females and White males.
POST 11/121 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (REF: IFB-174)
Overview: To conduct research and provide technical advice on the
development and amendments of incentive schemes and support
programmes.
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (level 12) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 in Economics, Financial Analysis, Development
Studies or a relevant qualification. 3-5 years relevant managerial experience in
Economic, Research, or Financial sectors in the private/public sector. Key
Requirements: Experience in organisational strategic planning, performance
and financial management. Experience in Strategic capability and leadership
skills, communication skills (verbal and written), analytical skills, presentation
skills, organisational planning and customer focus. Strategic Management
Project Management, Financial Management and Computer Literacy
(Microsoft Office Package). Knowledge and understanding of public Service
Regulations, Public Service Act, Public Finance management Act and Treasury
Regulations. Knowledge and understanding of key legislation applicable to
public entities and the dtic. Proven ability to manage stakeholder relations,
Research skills. Outgoing and able to engage managers at all levels of the
organization
DUTIES : Develop guidelines on new and amended Incentives programmes: Review
proposal or concept document reporting corporate findings on the guidelines
and ensure alignment to the dtic policies. Compile guidelines for new and
amended incentive programmes for Director’s approval. Consolidate the inputs
from stakeholders in relation the proposed guidelines. Compile submission to
the Director-General for the approval of the new/revised guidelines. Facilitate
the process of approval of guidelines and obtaining of all relevant signatures.
Manage the handover process of the approved incentive and amendments to
be implemented by the Incentive Administration Unit and lead discussions with
the Marketing Unit for publication on the dtic website. Provide technical advice
and support through Interpretation Notes on the interpretation of incentives
guidelines to internal stakeholders. Undertake technical site visits to
stakeholders to understand the business needs of entities pertaining to
incentive requirements. Research: Compile the Terms of Reference for
external Research studies to be conducted. Facilitate meetings with Service
Provider for external Research studies. Review and provide input on reports
submitted by Service Provider for external Research studies. Conduct
economic research to shape proposed incentive schemes and support
programmes. Project Management Develop project plans to introduce the new
incentives, amendments or phaseout to existing incentive products: Identify
relevant stakeholders for incentives development or amendments and convene
project teams. Develop performance indicators and manage the process of
developing incentive schemes. Report on the progress of projects and ensure
that milestones are achieved. Review the Application and Claim forms: Manage
the application and claim form process and ensure that they have been
designed in line with the requirements and provisions of the guidelines. Liaise
with IT for the automation and editing of the application and claim forms. Check
the final application and claim forms for user friendliness and flow. Sub-
directorate Management: Manage collation of inputs into the quarterly and
annual reports, business plans and targets Monitor financial resources and
assets of the unit. Manage the human resources of the sub-directorate.
Manage the process of reporting on financial and operational risk
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured females, Coloured males, White males and persons with
disabilities.
103
POST 11/122 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FORENSIC AUDIT (REF: ODG-028)
Overview: To manage the sub directorate Forensic Audit to ensure the effective
implementation of the investigation plans and the effective execution of
forensic audit procedures in -accordance with international guidelines of the
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE), forensic audit
methodologies, policies and procedures; and to make recommendations for
new procedures and/or the enhancement of existing processes.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (level 11) (All-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the SAQA in Forensic Auditing
and related fields. Registration with a professional body for Investigators
(ACFE/ICFP). Experience: Minimum: 3-5 years of management experience in
a Forensic Auditing environment. Key Requirements: Proven experience
managing forensic audit or investigative units, including oversight of multiple
investigations. Demonstrable experience in conducting forensic audits,
reviewing and quality assuring forensic audit reports (internal and external).
Experience developing or maintaining forensic audit methodologies, policies
and procedural frame-works. Experience managing relationships with forensic
service providers, panels of investigators and external stakeholders.
Experience in maintaining forensic registers (tip-offs/whistleblower registers)
and tracking implementation of recommendations. Experience in preparing and
presenting forensic reports, executive summaries and briefing- packs for senior
management and committees. Experience in coordinating and preparing
meeting packs/agenda for oversight committees (Forensic InCommittee,
RMC, Audit Committee). Project and case management skills, including
evidence compilation, annex ring and forensic file manage-m-ent. People
management experience including supervision, performance management and
training of forensic staff. Experience in monitoring and reporting on unit
budgets and managing limited programme funds. Computer literacy (MS
Office) and experience with registers/databases; project management training
is an advantage. Ability to work to deadlines, travel as required and maintain
confidentiality (Top Secret clearance may be required).
DUTIES : Manage the forensic audit sub directorate: Plan, conduct, allocate and oversee
forensic projects and ensure compliance with ACFE standards and
departmental procedures. Re-view and second level review forensic reports
(internal and outsourced) and ensure high quality before issue. Maintain
forensic registers (tipoffs, whistle blowers) a-nd control distribution and
recording of submissions. Compile progress reports, quarterly and annual
reports, and present -findings to -the Forensic InCommittee and Audit
Committee. Develop strategic forensic plans and ensure proper forensic
reporting: Assist in identifying key institutional risk a-re-as and contribute to the
annual forensic operational plan. Ensure findings are evidenced, analyzed and
that reports include relevant legislation, policies and recommendations.
Manage quality assurance on forensic files and oversee submission processes
to stakeholders for input. Prepare and present documentation and technical
briefs to oversight committees and management. Coordinate with internal and
external service providers to ensure coverage and avoid duplication: Manage
consultants and client relationships during planning and reporting phases and
monitor deliverables Provide guidance to oversight committees on forensic
processes, procedures and latest developments. Maintain a tracking register
for forensic findings and monitor implementation of recommendations by
management. Keep up to date with developments in the forensic audit
environment: Monitor professional journals, legislative and standards changes
and participate in continuous professional development. Ensure the sub
directorate adopts relevant tools, techniques and methodologies. Sub
directorate management: Manage staff discipline, performance, training and
development and undertake HR and administrative functions. Develop and
manage the sub directorate operational plan, ensure controls over work and
conduct quality control over outputs. Manage procurement and assets related
to forensic activities and serve on transversal task teams as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
males, White males and persons with disabilities.
104
POST 11/123 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEGAL INTERNATIONAL TRADE &
INVESTMENT REF NO: TRADE-085
Overview: To provide technical and administrative support in legal advice
provided on complex international trade and investment negotiations, and on
obligations and rights arising out of international agreements.
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (level 10), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Law. Minimum: 3 - 5
years’ experience in legal/ research/ International trade environment. Key
Requirements: Experience drafting and legally vetting negotiation positions,
clauses and treaty text for international agreements. Practical experience
supporting negotiating teams in bilateral, regional or multilateral forums (e.g.,
WTO, AfCFTA, EPA). Experience conducting legal research and preparing
legal opinions, technical notes and analytical briefs. Experience drafting legal
documents, briefs, pleadings, notices and memoranda relating to trade and
investment matters. Experience assisting with or coordinating dispute
processes under international trade/investment agreements. Experience
handling legal enquiries, tracking progress and providing timely written
feedback to requestors. Proven ability to compile and maintain legal files,
records and registers for negotiations and related matters. Stakeholder
engagement experience with internal branches, State Law Advisors, external
counsel, and industry representatives. Project and case management
experience, including meeting deadlines and managing multiple files. Strong
written and verbal communication, report-writing and presentation skills;
proficiency in MS Office. Supervisory or team coordination experience
preferred.
DUTIES : Prepare input into country negotiating positions on international trade and
investment issues. Contribute to the development and execution of legal
aspects of South Africa’s trade and investment negotiation positions. Prepare
reports, technical notes, letters, analytical assessments, recommendations
and briefings on legal aspects in negotiations. Support negotiating teams by
providing legal analysis and persuasive arguments and assist in drafting legal
text reflecting negotiation outcomes. Conduct research and analysis on legal
international trade and investment. Conduct systematic legal research with
reference to case law and applicable international instruments. Analyse and
organise legal information and apply research to develop positions, legal
opinions and negotiation support materials. Provide international trade and
investment related legal services. Draft and review legal documents, briefs,
preliminary pleadings, notices, opinions and memoranda. Serve as a
coordination point for litigation and dispute matters and support management
of legal processes with external counsel where required. Ensure compliance
and risk management in drafting and provide legal inputs to ratification,
implementation and policy processes. Handle legal and related enquiries Refer
and track legal enquiries to relevant stakeholders, provide written feedback
within stipulated timeframes and act as liaison for tabling or ratification
processes. Monitor and communicate published draft legislations and
collaborate with desks on bilateral relations and related legal issues. Records
management & travaux préparatoires. Open, update and maintain legal-related
files and records; distribute legal bulletins to advisors. Maintain and manage
travaux préparatoires and depositories for negotiations and ensure
accessibility of negotiation records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to Coloured
males, Coloured females, White males and persons with disabilities.
POST 11/124 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PHYSICAL SECURITY REF NO: CMSB-030
Overview: To manage the physical security requirements of the DTIC as per
the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) and Minimum Physical
Security Standard (MPSS) requirements.
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (level 9), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA in Security Management
/ Physical Security & Risk Management or relevant qualification and registered
with Private Security Industry Regulator Authority (PSIRA) (Grade A). 3-5
years’ experience in physical security services in private / public services
105
environment. Key Requirements: Proven experience managing physical
security operations and compliance to MISS/MPSS. Experience conducting
security risk assessments and incident investigations. Experience managing
access control, CCTV systems and TSCM coordination. Experience liaising
with SSA, SAPS, Metro Police and other security stakeholders. Experience
managing guarding contracts and monitoring service provider performance.
Experience delivering security awareness training and developing
communication materials. People management experience including
supervision of security staff and contractors. Experience preparing monthly and
incident reports and recommending remediation measures. Ability to work
under pressure, travel and respond to security incidents. Knowledge of
regulatory framework. Computer Literacy (Microsoft Office Packages)
DUTIES : Physical Security Management: Manage and monitor compliance with MISS
and MPSS; review security policies and SOPs. Oversee access control, CCTV
and security systems; evaluate and recommend system improvements. Attend
and manage physical security incidents and implement corrective actions.
Physical Security Awareness: Design and deliver physical security awareness
and induction training; publish communiques and newsflashes. Coordinate
external presentations (e.g., SAPS) and liaise with external security agencies.
Security Committee & Coordination: Arrange and service security committee
meetings; prepare meeting packs and minutes; coordinate quarterly meetings
with stakeholders. Security Sweeping & TSCM: Coordinate TSCM sweeping
for ministerial and sensitive areas and facilitate pre-inspections and SSA
sweeping. Investigations & Risk Assessments. Conduct investigations into
breaches, perform root-cause analysis and recommend corrective measures.
Support risk assessments for events and office environments and follow up
cases with SAPS as required. Reporting: Compile monthly reports, inspection
reports and incident reports for management with recommendations.
Procurement & Contract Management: Facilitate procurement of physical
security systems and suppliers for guarding services in regional offices. Staff
Supervision. Supervise Security Admin Officers and guarding companies;
perform inspections and advise on deployment improvements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured females and White males.
POST 11/125 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DESKTOP SERVICES REF NO: CMSB-149
Overview: To support end users in all aspects of their desktop environment
within the dtic.
SALARY : R582 444.per annum (level 10), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification at NQF level 7 in Computer Science, and or Microsoft Certified
Systems Engineers (MCSE) or relevant qualification. 3-5 years of experience
in ICT environment. Computer Literacy (Microsoft Office Packages); Database,
Information Security, Technical architecture & standards, Technology, Server
operations, Network operations, ICT Service Management, Server Operations;
Project Management, Knowledge of legislative and regulatory framework. Key
Requirements: Experience providing desktop support, remote support, and
enduser training. Experience classifying and resolving incidents and
knowledge of ITIL/incident management. Experience with configuration
man-agement, asset tracking, and baseline repositories. Experience with
operating systems, the Microsoft platform, and system administration.
Experience in backup, storage, retention, and restoration processes. People
management and stakeholder engagement experience. Ability to prepare
technical and operational reports and contribute to service improvement.
Computer Literacy (Microsoft Office Packages). Knowledge of legislative and
regulatory framework.
DUTIES : Implement desktop support operations: Provide logical access security,
application and desktop support; install and re-install software. Deliver remote
and mobile support and train end users on desktop tools and applications.
Incident Management: Classify incidents, assess impact and urgency, escalate
and implement emergency changes where necessary. Identify root causes and
ensure timely resolution or escalation. Manage data: Manage storage and
retention arrangements, data disposal and backup & restoration processes.
Configuration and assets: Maintain configuration repository and baselines,
identify configuration items and record asset movements.
106
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured females and White males.
POST 11/126 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO: CMSB-083
Overview: To provide specialist labour law support in relation to the field of
Employment Law and Employment Relations in the DTIC.
SALARY : R468 459. per annum (level 9), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF Level 7 in Labour Law/Labour Relations or a relevant
qualification. 3-5 years’ experience in Labour Law in Private and/or Public
environment. Key Requirements: Experience representing employers at labour
dispute forums (GPSSBC, PSCBC, CCMA, Labour Court). Experience
presenting in formal disciplinary enquiries and ensuring procedural/substantive
fairness. Experience conducting workplace investigations and compiling
investigation reports with findings and recommendations. Practical knowledge
of Employment Law, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA,
LRA, and related legislation. Experience drafting legal advice, affidavits, case
documents, and legal submissions. Experience facilitating grievance resolution
and advising senior managers (COOs, DDGs, DG, Minister). Experience
coordinating collective bargaining processes and preparing bargaining
chamber agendas and reports. Experience delivering training on labour-related
matters (disciplinary code, performance management, grievances). Data
management experience for ER registers and ability to produce trend analysis
and quarterly/annual reports. Strong communication, negotiation, and
stakeholder engagement skills; ability to liaise with State Attorneys and
external law firms. Computer Literacy (Microsoft Office Packages). Knowledge
of legislative and regulatory framework
DUTIES : Facilitate labour law litigation disputes: Represent the department at labour
dispute forums and prepare/coordinate affidavits and case documents. Liaise
with State Attorneys and external counsel and ensure cases are procedurally
correct. Represent the employer in formal disciplinary enquiries: Represent the
dtic at disciplinary enquiries and ensure procedural and substantive fairness.
Advise managers on case preparation and presentation. Facilitate, coordinate,
and resolve grievances: Investigate grievances, analyse documentation, and
provide advisory reports to management. Ensure confidentiality and fairness in
grievance handling. Provide advice on legislation and policy: Advise
management and staff on employment-related legislation and departmental
policies. Provide guidance to entities on ER matters and handle informal
disciplinary enquiries. Investigations on ER-related matters: Gather evidence,
conduct interviews, and compile investigative reports with findings and
recommendations. Monitor implementation of investigation outcomes. Conduct
training and manage poor performance programmes: Deliver training on
disciplinary codes, performance management, and collective bargaining.
Support managers to implement performance improvement plans. Coordinate
collective bargaining: Prepare agendas and feedback reports for the
Departmental Bargaining Chamber and consult with organised labour. Follow
up on implementation of resolutions to maintain labour peace. Reporting on ER
matters: Analyse trends, compile quarterly and annual ER reports and maintain
ER databases and registers. Provide management reports with
recommendations and follow-up actions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured females and White males.
POST 11/127 : ASD: BUDGET MANAGEMENT REF NO: ODG-224
Overview: To coordinate, review, analyse and quality-assure the entire budget
preparation, monitoring and reporting process for a government department or
component.
SALARY : R468 459.per annum (Level 09), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications: Minimum: (NQF 7) in Financial Management or relevant
qualification. Minimum 3-5 years’ supervisory experience in a Financial
management environment. Minimum Computer Literacy (MS Office Package)
Key Requirements: Experience coordinating and quality-assuring budget
107
preparation processes (MTEF, ENE, AENE, Roll Overs). Experience analysing,
interpreting and applying Treasury guidelines for ENE, MTEF and adjustment
estimates. Experience developing templates and collecting budget information
from line functionaries/branches. Experience assessing virements, rollovers
and making compliance-based recommendations. Experience preparing inputs
for annual financial statements and interim financial reports. Experience
supervising staff, allocating work and conducting quality control over financial
outputs. Experience developing or reviewing departmental budget policies and
procedures. Experience using BAS and other financial systems and strong MS
Office skills (Excel analysis). Experience liaising with National Treasury,
Auditor-General and internal stakeholders on budget matters. Strong
analytical, report-writing and presentation skills; ability to meet deadlines and
manage multiple tasks.
DUTIES : Planning – Coordinate, review, analyse and quality-assure financial supporting
information for planning purposes. Coordinate and review financial supporting
documents required for strategic and annual budget planning. Analyse and
quality-assure financial information used in the development and evaluation of
business and project plans. Check and verify supporting information submitted
by line units and provide feedback. Budgeting – Coordinate, review, analyse
and quality-assure the budget preparation process. Coordinate preparation
and consultation processes for the MTEF, ENE, AENE and roll-overs. Interpret
and implement Treasury guidelines and develop templates for budget
information collection. Assess requests for rollovers and virements and
recommend actions in line with prescripts. Manage operational processes,
resources and procedures associated with budget management. Evaluate
monthly budget reports, monitor inclusion of shifts/virements in IN-Year
Monitoring Reports and compile information for interim and annual financial
reports. Provide information for the preparation of annual financial statements
and ensure adjustments are recorded. Monitor expenditure against budgets
and advise on reallocations where required. Develop and review departmental
policies and procedures related to budget management. Allocate duties,
monitor outcomes, implement corrective actions and identify training needs.
Compile and submit administrative reports and ensure quality control of staff
outputs. Customers / Stakeholders Internal: Minister, Deputy Minister, dtic staff.
External: Service providers, business, other government departments.
Competency & Technical requirements. Managerial and technical
competencies include: Strategic capability, Budget management, PFMA &
Treasury knowledge, BAS system proficiency, Financial analysis,
Communication and stakeholder management (see JD for full competency
matrix).
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to, Coloured
males, White males and persons with disabilities.
POST 11/128 : ASD: COMPLIANCE AUDIT REF NO: ODG -036
Overview: To conduct Compliance Audits within the Dtic to assist management
in achieving risk management, control and governance objectives within their
business units.
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09), (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : B Degree (NQF 7) in Internal Audit. Completion of the General Internal Auditing
learnership/ Internship. Minimum 3- 5 years’ experience in internal audit. Key
Requirements: Proven experience planning, leading and executing compliance
audits in a public or private sector environment. Experience supervising and
mentoring internal auditors, including reviewing work papers and audit findings.
Experience developing audit scopes, engagement letters and audit programs.
Experience preparing draft and final audit reports with clear findings, root-
cause analysis and practical recommendations. Experience using audit
software and data analytics tools (e.g., Teammate, IDEA, ACL) and applying
data-driven testing. Experience compiling annual audit coverage plans and
prioritising audits using operational and strategic risk registers. Experience
managing audit projects and monitoring budgets, timelines and resource
allocation. Quality assurance experience in internal audit (QAIP) and
understanding of IIA standards and audit methodologies. Knowledge of PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, corporate governance principles and public sector
compliance requirements. Experience preparing inputs to Audit Committees
108
and providing secretariat support for committee meetings. Experience in
stakeholder engagement with line management, AG, Audit Committee and
outsourced consultants. Strong report writing, presentation and communication
skills; ability to present technical findings to senior management. Project and
people management experience including performance management and
training of staff. Computer literacy (MS Office: Word & Excel) and experience
maintaining audit registers and databases.
DUTIES : Planning for Compliance Audits. Develop audit scopes, engagement letters
and detailed audit plans in consultation with management. Identify objectives,
scope, methodology and resource requirements for each engagement.
Schedule audits and coordinate planning meetings with business unit
management. Supervising Internal Auditors. Allocate tasks and supervise
internal auditors, review work papers for clarity, accuracy and objectivity.
Compile draft audit reports for Deputy Director review and ensure quality of
auditors’ outputs. Manage administrative functions for the team including
performance management and leave oversight. On-the-job Training & Capacity
Building. Upskill internal auditors on audit techniques, procedures and use of
audit tools; populate skills transfer templates. Identify training and development
needs and discuss development plans with auditors to strengthen capacity.
Development of the Annual Audit Coverage Plan. Evaluate operational and
strategic risk registers to identify high-risk areas for audit coverage. Engage
with management to prioritize audits and determine timelines for the Three
Year Rolling Strategic Plan and Annual Coverage Plan. Project Management
of Compliance Audits. Provide inputs and summary documents for audit
committee meetings and compile budgets for each audit. Plan and execute
compliance audits, allocate resources and provide weekly feedback on project
status including Performance Information Verification audits. Communicate
Findings on Compliance Audits Compile and issue written audit reports
detailing findings, risks, root causes and recommendations. Conduct meetings
with line managers to resolve disagreements and request stakeholder
feedback on reports. Data Analytics. Advise on sampling strategies or full
population testing and apply data analysis techniques during audits. Compile
analytical data on trends, root causes and impacts to inform the Strategic
Session and audit selection. Quality Assurance & Improvement Plan.
Implement and monitor the Internal Audit Directorate’s Quality Assurance and
Improvement Program (QAIP). Coordinate quality assurance activities and
report result quarterly to the Audit Committee
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to, Coloured
males White males and persons with disabilities.
POST 11/129 : VETTING INVESTIGATOR (REF: CMSB-039)
Overview: To conduct vetting fieldwork investigations in line with the prescripts.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07) (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Qualification at NQF level 7 in Social Science or relevant qualification. 3- 5
years’ experience in vetting investigations in a public or private sector
environment. Key Requirements: Experience conducting vetting fieldwork,
gathering and analysing information. Experience compiling vetted reports for
management, SSA, and quality assurance of vetting files. Experience
conducting vetting investigations at Confidential, Secret, and Top-Secret
levels. Experience liaising with SSA, SAPS, Home Affairs, and other
intelligence stakeholders. Research, analytical, and report-writing skills
specific to vetting investigations. Ability to coordinate pre-employment
screening for contractors and advise on suitability. Ability to travel frequently,
work overtime, and operate under potentially intimidating conditions. Computer
Literacy (Microsoft Office Packages). Knowledge of legislative and regulatory
framework
DUTIES : Conduct Vetting Fieldwork Investigations: Gather, validate, and analyse
information; compile and submit vetting reports to management and SSA.
Conduct investigations for Confidential, Secret, and Top Secret clearances and
ensure quality control. Policy & Guidelines Input: Provide inputs into the
development and implementation of vetting policies, guid-elines, and standards.
Analyse vetting-related information and advice on the interpretation of
legislation and procedures. Stakeholder Liaison & Information Channels: Liaise
with SSA, SAPS, Home Affairs, and other stakeholders to obtain information
109
and support investigations. Manage relationships with credit information
providers and other external data sources. File Administration & Project
Support: Administer vetting files, participate in project/task teams, and
coordinate pre employment screening processes. Conduct vetting research
and ensure quality submission of reports and documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, T-el No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured males and females, Indian males and females, White males
and persons with disabilities.
POST 11/130 : STATE ACCOUNTANT REF NO: ODG-168
Overview: To process financial transactions accurately and timeously, and to
ensure they are recorded and reported in accordance with the Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, departmental policies and
internal controls.
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07) (Commencing salary)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 6 as recognised by SAQA in Financial
Management. 3-4 years' experience in Financial Management environment.
Experience processing payroll, staff claims and other financial transactions in
a financial/accounting system. Experience performing ledger reconciliations
and reviewing accounts for errors, exceptions and uncleared items. Experience
applying PFMA, Treasury Regulations and departmental financial policies in
daily transactions. Experience preparing supporting schedules, accruals and
working papers for financial reports and audits. Experience compiling daily
financial statistics and contributing to internal reporting. Experience with
BAS/LOGIS/SCOA or other transversal financial systems and strong MS Office
skills. Ability to identify and correct misallocations through journals and
maintain accurate filing of financial documents. Experience liaising with internal
divisions, National Treasury, Auditor General and external stakeholders on
payment/claim matters. Attention to detail, numerical accuracy and ability to
work to prescribed turnaround times. Good written and verbal communication
and stakeholder liaison skills.
DUTIES : Financial Transaction Processing: Calculate and verify claims for correctness,
completeness and compliance. Capture verified staff claims and payment
transactions accurately on the financial system. Process transactions for
approval within prescribed turnaround times and maintain proper filing.
Financial Control and Reconciliations: Verify budget availability prior to
processing payments or claims and ensure expenditure is correctly allocated.
Review relevant ledger accounts to identify errors, exceptions and uncleared
items. Perform monthly reconciliations of assigned accounts and correct
misallocations through journals. Compliance and Performance Management:
Ensure compliance with PFMA, Treasury Regulations and departmental
policies. Report irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure in line with
procedures and apply internal control measures. Compile and submit daily
financial statistics and provide inputs for performance, leave and training
administration. Reporting and Audit Support: Prepare supporting schedules,
accruals and working papers for financial reports and financial statements.
Provide information and documentation for internal and external audits and
respond to audit queries. Stakeholder Liaison: Liaise with internal divisions
regarding outstanding or incorrect documentation and communicate with
clients on payment/claim matters. Liaise with National Treasury, the Reserve
Bank and other institutions where applicable.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Xaluva, Tel No: 012 394 1563 / L Mdashe, 012 394 3103
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
males, Coloured females, Coloured males, Indian females, Indian males and
White males.
110
ANNEXURE P
NATIONAL DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za. Note:
email applications must be sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the
email and only quotes the name of the post you are applying for on the Subject
Line as directed on the post note.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process; the
logistics will be communicated to candidates prior to the interviews.
Recommended candidates will also be required to attend a Psychometric
Assessments as part of the recruitment process. Recommended candidates
will also be required to generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020
as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted
prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/131 : SENIOR SPECIALIST: GOVERNANCE SERVICES (CHIEF DIRECTOR
LEVEL) REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/11
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum of which 30% can be structured according to
individual’s needs. (All-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate NQF level 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Law /
Business Management / Administration / Public Management / Finance /
Accounting / Auditing with 5 years relevant experience at a senior managerial
level in a corporate governance or entity oversight environment. Knowledge
And Skills: Legislative and policy prescripts relevant to the Department and its
SOEs, Corporate Governance as it applies to the Public and Private Sector as
well as compony Law, Project Management Strategic Planning and Risk
Management. National Treasury Regulations and other relevant legislation and
policies relevant to public entities. Communication; Financial Management;
111
Strategic Capability & Leadership; People Management & Empowerment;
Client Orientation and Customer focus; Change Management.
DUTIES : Manage and direct the development and maintenance of the overarching
government SOC governance framework. Provide strategic support to the
executive management on the development of the shareholder policy leading
up to legislation. Manage and direct the development and maintenance of the
SOC governance assurance framework tools and guidelines. Develop and
maintain the SOC generic governance reporting regime. Manage SOC
governance assurance reviews to assess compliance and facilitate corrective
action where required. Manage and direct the development of the governance
review annual agenda including the annual general meetings. Develop and
quality assure findings reports through executive management to the
shareholder. Manage and direct the provisioning of technical advisory services
to executive management and the shareholder on the appointment and
dismissal of SOC Board Members. Develop and maintain the SOC Board
government regime. Provide technical advisory services to the shareholder on
the disclosure of interest of potential candidates. Ensure the effective, efficient
and economical utilization of resources allocated SOC governance assurance
projects. Ensure the establishment and maintenance of project governance
instruments. Account for the utilization of resources allocated to financial
governance assurance projects. Manage the resources of the Chief
Directorate. Provide guidance and adequate support for and development of
the staff of the chief directorate. Ensure compliance with all administrative
requirements, regulations, rules and instructions pertaining to the chief
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Molatelo Motsepe Tel No: (012) 309 3851
POST 11/132 : DIRECTOR: PUBLIC ENTITY OVERSIGHT REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/12
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum of which 30% can be structured according to
individual’s needs. (All-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Finance or Accounting
with minimum of 5 year’s working experience at a middle/senior managerial
level in a financial institution or public entity. Knowledge And Skills: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury regulations, Knowledge of the
SA Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), knowledge of Budgeting processes and
procedures and government accounting systems. Communication; Financial
Management; Strategic Capability & Leadership; People Management &
Empowerment; Client Orientation and Customer focus.
DUTIES : Coordinate, analyse and report the financial information of public entities.
Provide quarterly and annual financial analysis report against business
performance and operations. Ensure the coordination and submission of all
compliance certificates, plans and related documents for the attention of the
department. Monitor sound financial governance practices within public
entities. Oversight on the entity on financial governance and related matters
relating to the entity. Analyse and advise on the proposed business models and
plans of entities. Maintain and review the integrated reporting information of
public entities. Provide quarterly and annual financial reports on irregular,
fruitless, and wasteful expenditure. Advise on the acquisition and disposal of
public entity asset. Analyse and coordinate all budgetary of public entities.
Review and consolidate all public entities budgetary information and inputs
during the budget cycle. Workshop public entities on board with regards
budgetary information compliance and financial performance information.
Monitor entities financial information and performance according to the
strategic / corporate plans and annual performance plans. Monitor financial
information and performance in entity’s strategic / corporate plans and annual
performance plans. Ensure regulatory compliance through regular reviews and
monitoring of strategic, corporate plans, annual performance plans and annual
reports. Provide financial advice on PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Ensure
compliance with PFMA and /or regulations and policies. Provide inputs in
relation to policy development. Manage the resources of the directorate.
Ensure compliance with all administrative requirements, regulations, rules and
instructions pertaining to the directorate. Establish and maintain governance
and administrative system’s continuity within the work of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Molatelo Motsepe: (012) 309 3851
112
ANNEXURE Q
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/134 : HUMAN RESOURCES BUSINESS PARTNER (HRBP) REF NO: S040/2026
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To provide a fully Integrated Human Resources Business Partnering
service to the National Treasury and establish a culture of excellence through
value-adding Human Resources (HR) offerings and processes.
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with, at minimum, a National Diploma
(equivalent to NQF level 6) in Human Resources Management or Industrial
113
Psychology or Human Resources Development or Public Administration or
Employee Relations. A Bachelor’s. degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) or above
in any of the above disciplines is added advantage. A minimum of 4 years’
experience is required, of which 2 years should be on an Assistant Director
level or equivalent obtained in the broader HR field. Knowledge and experience
in the delivery of HR processes and leading changes within business units.
Knowledge and experience of Legislative Framework Governing the Public
Service within the HR environment such as Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulation, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act etc.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include HR Service Delivery: Establish and maintain strong
relationship management and service excellence with stakeholders and uphold
the HR Brand equity in line-functionaries. Establish partnerships with line-
functionaries to execute relevant HR Processes to the Business (Divisions).
Identify, understand and translate Line or Business needs into value-adding
HR initiatives. Implement systems and processes to ensure that HR meets its
strategic objectives, in line with those of the National Treasury. Establish HR
service Delivery as the 1st and single point of contact in the Divisions on related
matters or queries or requests. Be a custodian of: Line-functionaries HR needs
and HR processes in Line (Talent Management Offerings). Provide HR support
and guidance to both Managers and employees within the Division. HR
Communication: Enable the marketing and communication of HR Initiatives
within the National Treasury. HR Governance: Ensure compliance to HR
Policies, Procedures, Practices and all other statutory requirements (HR
Governance). HR Operations: Ensure that transactional HR aspects are kept
in line with legislative requirements (employee data, information & records) for
Divisions are accurate and valid at all times. Implement processes and
procedures to measure HR’s impact and contribution to the National Treasury’s
effectiveness. Evaluate HR policies and align services offerings. HR Projects:
Manage key strategic HR projects, implementation and their deliverables
thereof. Execution and monitoring of progress and compliance on: Policies,
procedures, practices & processes in line, Change Management initiatives and
Strategic HR initiatives. HR Information: Analyse and interpret HR reports, and
identify positive and negative trends, with recommendations thereof. Provide
relevant HR management information or reports as per business requirements.
Achieve HR key performance indicators and objectives in the Divisions (HR
Dashboard & Scorecard Indicators, metrics). Relationship Management:
Develop and maintain effective relationships with Line (both managers and
employees).
ENQUIRIES : ONLY (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 20 April 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
POST 11/135 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: S041/2026
(Re-advertisement)
Division: Office Of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To manage asset verification of items and recommend the disposal
of redundant and obsolete assets within the National Treasury.
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (All-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) or Bachelor’s degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in Financial
or Management Accounting. A minimum of 4 years’ experience of which 2 years
should be on an Assistant Director level or equivalent obtained in a financial
accounting or asset verification environment. Knowledge of the Public Service
Policy Framework on Asset Management. Knowledge and experience of the
asset verification and redundancy process. Knowledge of data management
methodologies of the asset verification classification.
DUTIES : Some key Outputs include: Account Assets in the Departmental Asset Register:
Calculate the value of all movable assets and support findings with required
documentation for record keeping. Account for assets of the department as
recorded in the departmental asset register and reconciled with general ledger.
Comply with all relevant application statutes, regulations and departmental
prescripts applicable to the Department’s assets verification process. Compile
reports, quality assurance purposes and align them with information depicted
in the Department’s assets register. Prepare project documentation and plans
and oversee activities in accordance with the approved projects deliverables.
114
Disposal of Redundant or Obsolete Assets: Identify all redundant or obsolete
assets and prepare disposal measures for consideration and approval. Update
the asset register and ensure all disposed assets are removed from the asset
register. Verify Existence of Departmental Assets: Verify the existence of all
departmental assets and prepare an update report on the status quo.
Reconcile the asset register with the updated verification outcome.
Departmental Policy Develop, Implementation and Maintenance: Develop and
implement policies and prescripts related to asset management and
verification. Implement asset acquisition and disposal plans of the department.
ENQUIRIES : ONLY (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 20 April 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
115
ANNEXURE R
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 15 April 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za Other related documentation such as copies of
qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required
to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police clearance
certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The Department of
Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996
(Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the posts of Senior State Accounts;
referenced VOCMA 17, VOCMA 18, VOCMA 22, and VOCMA 23 advertised in
Public Service Vacancy Circular 9 of 2026, dated 13 March 2026 has been
withdrawn and Kindly note that the posts of Engineer Production Grade A–C
(Ref No: 070426/01), as advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 10 of
2026 dated 07 April 2026, require an Engineering Degree (BEng/BSc (Eng)) in
Mechanical Engineering. Kindly note that the closing date has been extended
to 15 April 2026.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/136 : DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE, MONITORING & ENFORCEMENT REF NO:
PUCMA 26
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency Div: Water
Resource Planning And Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (all- inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree at NQF level 7 in Environmental
Management/Environmental Science/ Water Resources
Management/Hydrology/Natural Science/Civil or Environmental Engineering/
compliance or regulatory studies. Six (6) to ten (10) years’ experience in
compliance, monitoring and/or enforcement in the Water sector. Five (5) years
of the experience should be at middle/Senior Management level. A Nyukela
Public Service SMS Pre-entry certificate. A Masters or Honours degree
qualifications would be added advantage including MBA. Ability to relate with
associated professional fields in a multi-disciplinary team and ability to train
116
and develop young graduates. Knowledge of the National Water Act, Water
Services Act, the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Environmental and
land legislation.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction in the development and implementation of
compliance monitoring and enforcement policy, strategies, norms, regulations,
standard operating procedures within the catchment management area.
Ensure compliance monitoring and enforcement to all water use license
condition within the catchment management area. Ensure enforcement on
non-compliance to the water use license condition. Provide advise and support
on criminal and administrative litigation. Initiate prosecution against non-
compliance through administrative enforcement. Provision of business
planning and general management for the directorate. Provide guidance in the
planning of inspections and audits. Ensure the implementation of monitoring
activities and verifications of reports. Develop a business and action plan for
the directorate. Develop and implement a service delivery improvement
programme for the Directorate. Manage and ensure development of human
resources. Control and monitor expenditure of the directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Zakhele Buthelezi, Tel No: 079 694 6787
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/137 : CHIEF ENGINEER: GRADE A REF NO: 150426/01
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Fs Cd: Provincial
Operations: Free State Dir: Water And Sanitation Services Support Sd: Water
Service Planning Support
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree (B Eng/BSC Eng) or relevant qualification. Six (6)
years post qualification experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The disclosure of
a valid unexpired driver’s license. Extensive experience in water and sanitation
services planning and implementation, including feasibility studies, designs,
associated legislative requirements, site supervision and project close-out.
Knowledge of programme, project and financial management and ability to
effectively liaise with a wide range of sector role players. Knowledge of the
water sector and relevant legislation (including but not limited to The Water
Services Act (No. 108 of 1997), National Water Act (Act No. 36 of 1998) and
National Environmental Management Act (Act 107 of 1998) amongst others.
Research and development. Computer-aided engineering applications
including relevant computer software knowledge. Technical report writing,
networking, and professional judgement. Problem solving and analyses,
decision making, team leadership, creativity, self-management, stakeholder
focus and responsiveness. Sound interpersonal and leadership skills.
Planning, organising and people management. Excellent communication skills
(written and verbal). Strategic capability and leadership. Must be available to
travel as and when required often at short notice.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers,
Technologists, Technicians and associates in field, workshop and technical
office activities. Provide support in the analysis and project management of
water and sanitation services projects. Provide technical support to the water
and sanitation sector. Strategic Analysis of Water Services themes and topics.
Development of related business perspectives with recommendations. Liaison
and engagements with all stakeholders and water and sanitation sector players
with regards to project planning and implementation. Provide support to WSAs
to ensure implementation of Planning and implementation Frameworks and
methodologies. Monitoring and reporting on the adherence to these planning
and implementation frameworks and methodologies. Identification,
prioritization and initiation of projects through and the associated financial
management to structure the required budgets for planning and
117
implementation. Co-ordination of planning to ensure integrated planning and
management of water and sanitation projects in all spheres of government
(Water Boards, WSAs and other WSPs) to improve water and sanitation
services, and the reliability and sustainably of infrastructure. Investigation,
assessment, monitoring and reporting on all aspects of Water and Sanitation
Services delivery. Ensure all data, information, reports and results of analyses
are packaged and made accessible to the sector via the Water Services
Knowledge System and National Integrated Water Information System. Liaison
with, and maintenance of data sharing and information partnerships with key
Water and Sanitation Services, Sector role-players and stakeholder such as
Statistics South Africa, National Treasury, Cooperative Governance and Office
of the Presidency. Ensure quality assurance of technical designs with
specifications and authorize/make recommendations for the approval by the
relevant authority. Monitor and ensure projects are implemented in accordance
with prescribed norms and standards. Monitoring and evaluation of water and
sanitation services delivery projects. The provision of guidance to the water
sector regarding technical and engineering aspects of the operations and
maintenance of water and sanitation services infrastructure. Support and
provide guidance on All Town Reconciliation Studies, implementation of
WCWDM, Bulk Water and Sanitation Master Planning and Disaster
Management. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Research/Literature studies on technical
engineering technology to improve expertise.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Xokozela, Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : This appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary range,
however, a higher notch within the salary range of Grade A will be considered
based in relation to the provisions of the Public Service Regulation 2016 as
amended, i.e. provision of the candidate’s current salary advice.
POST 11/138 : SCIENTIST MANAGER GRADE A REF NO: PUCMA 27
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency Division:
Water Resource Planning And Management
SALARY : R1 099 488 per annum (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : MSc degree in Hydrology, Water Resources Management, Environmental
Science, Aquatic Science or relevant natural science qualification. Compulsory
registration with SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist. Minimum six
(6) years post-qualification experience in water quality management, resource
protection or integrated water resource management. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Sound knowledge of the National Water Act (Act 36
of 1998), Resource Directed Measures (classification, Resource Quality
Objectives and Reserve), Catchment Management Strategy processes and
aquatic ecosystem monitoring frameworks, including the River Eco-status
Monitoring Programme. Proven experience in establishing and overseeing
monitoring systems, scientific data governance and quality assurance
processes. Strong leadership, analytical and advisory capability. Ability and
willingness to travel frequently within the Water Management Area and conduct
site visits where required. Proven experience in managing technical teams,
including performance management, skills development and work planning.
Sound understanding of public sector financial management principles and the
ability to plan, manage and monitor programme budgets within a regulated
water resource management environment.
DUTIES : Lead water resource quality and protection functions within the Water
Management Area. Oversee the development and implementation of water
quality management programmes, including the waste discharge charge
strategy. Provide scientific governance and quality assurance over monitoring
systems, ecological assessments and technical reports. Oversee technical
assessments and site investigations undertaken by scientific staff, including
pollution incident responses, and provide strategic recommendations to
Executive Management. Lead review of environmental submissions, including
Scoping Reports and Environmental Impact Assessment Reports, to assess
impacts on water resources and ecosystems. Drive institutional readiness for
resource classification, Reserve implementation and Resource Quality
Objective monitoring. Work collaboratively to ensure integrated quantity–
118
quality management and alignment between allocation and protection
priorities. Represent PUCMA in technical forums and provide high-level
scientific advisory inputs on emerging risks and sustainability challenges.
Manage and supervise scientific staff, including performance planning,
monitoring and development, and ensure optimal allocation of technical
resources. Plan, manage, and monitor programme budgets for water resource
quality and protection functions, and ensure the cost-effective implementation
of monitoring and management programmes in compliance with applicable
public sector financial management frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Zakhele Buthelezi, Tel No: (079) 694 6797
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/139 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WATER SECTOR COLLABORATION REF NO:
150426/02
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Fs Cd: Provincial
Operations: Free State Dir: Water And Sanitation Services Support Sd: Sector
Collaboration
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12) (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 (National Diploma) in Social Science / Project Management. Three
(3) years’ experience at Assistant Director level in intergovernmental advocacy
or community empowerment. The disclosure of a valid unexpired valid driver’s
license. Manage International and Intergovernmental Relations on water sector
resource matters. Experience in local government support programmes and
strategic engagements with stakeholders e.g. Premiers, EXCO, Mayors
Forums, MM’s Forums and sector departments forums will be an added
advantage. Practical experience in developing strategic documents like
Ministers briefing notes, speeches, annual performance plan, operational plans
etc. Working experience in Water Services Data collections and advice on
strategy to on corrective measures. Programme, project management, change
management experience. Knowledge and understanding of business and
management principles. Knowledge of strategic planning, resources allocation
and human resources. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, project
management and Water legislations. Problem solving, analysis, strategic
capabilities and leadership skills. Knowledge management, Service delivery
and innovation. People Management and Empowerment. Client orientation
and customer focus skills. Good communication skills both verbal and written.
Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate stakeholder and engagement and management in the water sector
by ensuring co-operation through forums; committees. Implement policies of
integrated water sector for component by developing and sharing a vision and
mission for the section. Communicate and empower stakeholders on
Departmental policies. Responsible for performance monitoring, evaluation
and reporting of the Chief Directorate and other sector reports. People
management. Financial management for the sub-directorate. Advice top
management and the legislature, as well as relevant sector bodies, on policies
and strategies relevant to the section. Develop the Business Plan/Operational
plans for the Sub- Directorate, ensure and manage implementation thereof.
Promote sector advocacy through dissemination of information on key sector
programmes. Plan, execute and represent the Department in
IGR/Stakeholders Engagement Structures. Manage relationship with the
stakeholders. Establish partnerships for Departmental programmes.
Implement strategic objectives of the component. Monitor progress on the
implementation of programmes related to intergovernmental relations. Develop
and Manage community participation programmes. Responsible for water
services monitoring. Attend to water and sanitation services customer
complaints. Engage community in the Departmental programmes and projects
through community water sector forums and empower forums.
119
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Xokozela, Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/140 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SANITATION SERVICES REGULATION REF NO:
150426/03
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Fs Cd: Provincial
Operations: Free State Dir: Water Services Regulation Sd: Sanitation Services
Regulation
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12) (All-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Environmental Management or Natural Science
field. Five (5) years supervisory experience at Assistant Director level in Water
Resource Management/ Water and Sanitation Services Management or
Regulation field. Previous involvement in the Green Drop regulatory
programme will be an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Effective management and leadership skills. Effective
advanced computer skills: Microsoft Office Software (MS Word, Excel and
PowerPoint), and other software applications. Effective communication skills
both verbally and in writing with management, colleagues, and individuals
outside of the organization. Effective analytical and problem-solving skills.
Accountability and Ethical Skills. Good planning and organizing skills.
Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource Management Legislation,
policies, practices and procedures. Knowledge and experience in Project and
Programme Management. Research and Development skills. Technical report
writing and professional judgement skills. Data analysis and presentation skills.
Knowledge of policy development and analysis. Financial Management Skills.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National
Environmental Management Act (NEMA), National Water Act (NWA), Water
Services Act (WSA) and related legislations. Willingness to travel extensive
hours.
DUTIES : Oversee the conducting of technical inspections on wastewater systems
infrastructure and compilation of detailed inspection reports with
recommendations. Ensure monitoring compliance to municipal wastewater
standards and compilation of relevant reports with recommendations. Manage
issuing letters of non-compliance to wastewater standards and monitoring
remedial actions. Ensure monitoring the capturing of wastewater services data
by Water Services Institutions in the Integrated Regulatory Information System
(IRIS). Lead monitoring compliance of onsite sanitation and non-sewered
sanitation (NSSS) to relevant guidelines and regulations. Preparations, and
conducting of assessments relating to Green Drop regulatory programme.
Manage the process of coordinating submission and monitoring
implementation of submitted corrective action plans for the Green Drop
programme. Lead on the compilation of presentations for catchment
management forums and DWS management. Lead coordination with
Catchment Management Agencies on the investigations and reporting on
sewer spillages and pollution incidents. Manage review of Environmental
Impact Assessment, Basic Assessment Reports, and Environmental
Management Plans to provide comments relating to developments projects
(e.g. housing/township developments, shopping centers, etc.). Provide sub-
directorate inputs for contribution to the Operational Plan of the Directorate.
Compile and submit monthly, quarterly and annual reports (finance,
performance, and risk) for the sub-directorate. Manage budget and
procurement processes of the sub-directorate. Manage and supervise Human
Resources. Management of audit process for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N Musekene, Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/141 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: PUCMA 28
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency Division:
Revenue Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Durban
120
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF 7 qualification in a financial management / financial accounting
or related field. Five (5) years’ experience in financial management and
reporting, of which three (3) years relevant experience at supervisory /
management level. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Knowledge and practical experience in financial reporting standards.
Knowledge and understanding of cash management legislation, policies,
practices, and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations and guidelines. Knowledge of Public Service
anti-corruption strategy and anticorruption and fraud prevention measures.
Understanding of Entity’s policies and procedures, government financial
systems, principles, and practice of financial accounting. Working experience
on Systems Applications and Products (SAP). Proficiency in Microsoft office
(MS Excel, PowerPoint, MS Word, and Outlook), Ability to compile financial
reports and presentations. Strong Organizational skills, analytical thinking, and
attention to detail. Good communication skills both (verbal and written), Proven
managerial ability to support staff. Supervisory principles and practices,
including planning, delegating, and monitoring the work of the subordinates
within the unit. Accountability and ethical conduct. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Overseeing and managing payroll management and reporting sub-directorate.
Provide support to clusters on all payroll management and reporting
responsibilities. Consolidate all monthly reports from clusters. Ensure proper
reporting on quarterly basis for performance reporting, quarterly financial
reports, and finally annual reporting, including preparation and compilation of
GRAP compliant Annual Financial Statements. Ensure that audit queries are
responded to on time. Formulating, documenting, implementing, and reviewing
of policies, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and programs relating to
payroll management, other regulatory internal control and compliance issues,
General Ledger Reconciliation. Manage the completion of all daily, weekly, and
monthly operational duties with assistance from the Assistant Director,
recommending initiatives to enhance risk mitigation and fraud protection to
Director. Manage compliance regarding remuneration and benefits processes.
Attending meetings as and when required. Attending to audit queries and
formulating appropriate responses. Manage year end processes and account
adjustments, Training, and support to clusters. Assist the Director in the
effective execution of his / her responsibilities. Supervise and evaluate staff
and sign their performance agreements and assessments, Staff management
and training.
ENQUIRIES : Zakhele Buthelezi, Tel No: (079) 694 6787
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/142 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO: PUCMA 29
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency Division:
Revenue Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate (NQF Level 7) in Accounting/ Financial Accounting or
equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA, with related field. Five (5)
years’ experience in financial management of which three (3) should be at an
entry/junior management level (Assistant Director or equivalent). Applicant
must also have at least three (3) years’ experience in a Revenue and Debt
Collection environment. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Applicants must have knowledge of the PFMA and regulations and other
relevant legislation. Knowledge of the planning and budgeting framework for
government (MTEF). Knowledge of government financial policies, processes,
including budgeting and reporting. Knowledge and experience of accounting
standards and practices including International Financial Reporting Standard
(IFRS) or Generally Recognized Accounting Practices (GRAP). Proven work
experience / understanding of the SAP system or similar ERP system.
121
Knowledge and National Water Act and all applicable legislations. Must be
computer literate.
DUTIES : Ensure effective collective of monies due to the VOCMA. Assist with
developing and implementing an effective debtor’s management system.
Ensure effective management of debtor’s book. Assist with establishing and
managing effective processes to collect outstanding debt. Assist with the tariff
setting process of VOCMA. Provide inputs for revenue enhancement. Prepare
revenue management reports and reconciliations with accepted budgetary
framework. Assist and prepare the annual budget for the division. Assist with
the preparation of Annual Financial Statement specifically account receivable
and debt impairment components in the financial statement. Ensure that the
VOCMA complies with PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Manage the
implementation of good corporate governance principles. Develop and
manage the implementation of internal control procedures to ensure the
effective functioning of the sub-directorate and management of risk.
Responding to internal audit and Auditor General queries with regards to
revenue management. Develop the operational plan for the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Zakhele Buthelezi, Tel No: (079) 694 6787
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/143 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A (CIVIL) REF NO:
150426/05
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Fs Cd: Provincial
Operations: Free State Dir: Water Resources Management Support Sd:
Hydrological Services
SALARY : R921 900 per annum (All-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Technology (BTech) in Civil Engineering. Six (6) years post
qualification Engineering Technologist experience required. Compulsory
registration with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional
Engineering Technologist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
Proven knowledge and understanding of hydrological processes.
Demonstration of good understanding and competence in all aspects of
hydrometry. Project management. Technical design and analysis knowledge.
Research and Development. Computer-aided engineering applications.
Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Technical consulting.
Networking professional judgment. Problem-solving and analysis. Decision
making. Team leadership. Creativity. Change management. Financial
management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication skills and
computer Skills. Planning and organizing. People management skills. Willing
to travel and work away from home whenever required. Must be prepared to
undergo extensive in-house training at different locations.
DUTIES : Manage technological advisory services. Plan technological support to
Engineers and associate professionals in the field. Ensure the adherence and
promotion of safety standards in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Solve broadly defend technological challenges through
application of proven techniques and procedures. Develop, maintain and
manage current technologies. Monitoring and Evaluation of technological
designs. Evaluate and monitor existing technical manuals, standard drawings
and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality assurance of
technical designs with specifications and make recommendations for approval
by the relevant authority. Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying
engineering principles. Manage administrative and related functions. Provide
inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technological/ engineering operational
plan. Ensure the development, implementation and maintenance databases.
Research / literature studies on engineering technology to improve expertise.
Liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering related matters. Research
122
and development, continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures. Assist the manager in the Free State provincial
operations in establishing an effective, efficient and accurate data and quality
management system. Manage the day-to-day hydrometry investigations,
quality of data, planning of data collection, processing of data, and calibration
for the hydrological network within Free State provincial operations. Provide
guidance, assistance, supervision and training of technical personnel in all
aspects of hydrometry. Able to perform land surveying whenever required for
calibration purposes. Apply commercial software and in-house computer
software to achieve maximum efficiency in performing duties. Calibration of
Gauging Weirs. Perform quality control tasks on processed time series data.
Research on station history and updating of HYDSTRA database. Data
Dissemination. Provide leadership in terms of the planning, programming and
execution of data collection, water samples, maintenance, near real time
systems and data processing and archiving. Attending meetings, workshops
and forums related to the sub directorate. Research new technology relevant
to hydrological services. Co-ordinate Flow measurements using various flow
techniques (Conventional current gauging and Acoustic Current Doppler
Profilers), in particular during the high flow season. Audit flow measurements
performed by technical staff. Manage and supervise technological and related
personnel and assets.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Venter, Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/144 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A: CIVIL REF NO:
150426/06
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Ec Cd: Provincial
Operations: Eastern Cape
SALARY : R921 900 per annum (All-Inclusive OSD Salary Package)
CENTRE : Cradock
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Technology (B Tech) in Civil Engineering. Six (6) years post
qualification Engineering Technologist experience required. Compulsory
registration with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a
Professional Engineering Technologist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Proven knowledge and understanding of hydrological
processes. Demonstration of good understanding and competence in all
aspects of hydrometry. Project management. Technical design and analysis
knowledge. Research and Development. Computer- aided engineering
applications. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing.
Technical consulting. Networking professional judgement. Problem solving and
analysis. Decision making. Team leadership. Creativity. Change management.
Financial management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication
skills and computer skills. Planning and organizing. People management skills.
Willing to travel long distances and work away from home if and when needed.
Must be prepared to undergo extensive in-house training at different locations.
DUTIES : Manage technological advisory services. Plan technological support to
Engineers and associate professionals in the field. Ensure the adherence and
promotion of safety standards in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Solve broadly defend technological challenges through
application of proven techniques and procedures. Develop, maintain and
manage current technologies. Monitoring and Evaluation of technological
designs. Evaluate and Monitor existing technical manuals, standard drawings
and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure quality assurance of
technical designs with specifications and make recommendations for approval
by relevant authority. Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying
engineering principles. Manage administrative and related functions. Provide
inputs into the budgeting process. Compile and submit reports as required.
Provide and consolidate inputs to the technological / engineering operational
plan. Ensure the development, implementation and maintenance database.
Manage and supervise technological and related personnel and assets.
Research and development, continuous professional development to keep up
with new technologies and procedures research / literature studies on
engineering technology to improve expertise. Liaise with relevant bodies /
councils on engineering related matters. Assist the manager in the Eastern
Cape in establishing an effective, efficient and accurate data and quality
123
management system. Manage the day to day hydrometry investigations,
quality of data, planning of data collection, processing of data, and calibration
for the hydrological network within Eastern Cape. Provide guidance,
assistance, supervision and training of technical personnel in all aspects of
hydrometry. Able to perform land surveying if and when needed for calibration
purposes. Apply commercial software and in-house computer software to
achieve maximum efficiency in performing duties. Calibration of gauging weirs.
Perform quality control tasks on processed time series data. Research on
station history and updating of hydstra database. Data dissemination.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kama. Tel No: (043) 701 0272
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/145 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SERVICES, REF NO: PUCMA 30
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency
Division: Institutions Stakeholder Engagement And Governance
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree / Advanced Diploma (NQF 7) or National Diploma (NQF 6)
qualification in Public Administration or Management / HR / Industrial
Psychology. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Corporate Services or
Human Resources Management of which three (3) should be at an entry/junior
management level (Assistant Director or equivalent). The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of policy development
and implementation. Knowledge of Administration processes. Knowledge of
HR information. Disciplinary knowledge in HR information. Understanding of
government legislation. Financial management and knowledge of PFMA.
Knowledge of techniques and procedures for the planning and execution of
operations. Programme and project management. Problem solving and
analysis. People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer
focus. Good Communication skills. Accountability and ethical conduct.
Knowledge of analytical procedures.
DUTIES : Manage and provide support in HR, Information Technology, Administration,
Communication, Facility Management, OHS including Safety and Security.
Assist with the development and implementation of the Strategic Plan. Analyse
current policies and departmental strategic objectives. Implement
administration policies and various disciplines. Analyse human resource
information trends. Recommend policy amendments. Develop implementation
plan. Hold road shows advising PUCMA on key policy issues. Brief managers
on policy requirements. Monitor policy implementation. Assist with the
development and implementation of Strategic Plan. Develop Corporate
Services Implementation plan. Ensure that the line managers execute their
business plan within the objectives of HR Plan. Ensure that strategic objectives
are implemented accordingly. Ensure that Corporate Services forms business
partnership with line management. Ensure compilation of Corporate Services
budget. Ensure that budget is implemented according to plan. Do early warning
where necessary. Provide monthly reports to managers. Management of
Human Resources. Provide expert advice on HR information implementation
to managers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Zakhele Buthelezi, Tel No: (079) 694 6787
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/146 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A -C REF NO:
150426/04
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office Dir: Civil Engineering: Sd:
Bulk Pipe Systems
SALARY : R921 900 per annum. (All-inclusive OSD salary package)
124
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Technology (B-Tech) in Civil Engineering. Six (6) years post
qualification engineering experience. Compulsory Professional registration
with Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering
Technologist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge
of project management, technical design, and analysis. Knowledge and
understanding of research and development. Knowledge and experience in
Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance and
technical report writing. Good communication skills both (verbal and written),
conflict management and negotiation skills. Problem solving and analysis,
decision making, teamwork, creativity, financial management, people
management, customer focus, responsiveness, planning and organizing. Must
be prepared to work away from the office and travel extensively for extended
periods of time.
DUTIES : Manage technical services and support in conjunction with Engineers. Monitor,
analyse and determine actions to ensure effective contract administration. Co-
ordinate the development of Service Level Agreements and manage all types
of signed contracts. Monitor and evaluate contract performance in line with the
Service Level Agreements. Monitor Compliance and control in contract
management, co-ordinate improved service delivery. Ensure the promotion of
safety in line with statutory and regulatory requirements. Manage
administrative, human resources and related functions. Financial Management
and provide inputs into the budgeting process, operational plan, procurement
plan and related matters. Compile and submit reports as required. Liaise with
relevant bodies/councils on engineering related matters. Provide mentorship
and supervision of personnel. Research / literature studies and technical
engineering technology to improve expertise. Research and development
through Continuous Professional Development (CPD) to keep up with new
technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J. Mabela, Tel No: (012) 336-6564
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/147 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION A – C REF NO: PUCMA 31
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency
Division: Water Resource Planning And Management (Water Resources
Protection)
SALARY : R761 157 - R1 144 008 per annum (all-inclusive OSD salary package) (Offer
will be based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Science Degree (BSc Hons) in Environmental Science, Aquatic Science,
Hydrology, Water Quality Science or relevant natural science qualification.
Three (3) years of post-qualification scientific experience in water quality
monitoring, ecological assessment or pollution impact analysis. Compulsory
registration with SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of the National Water Act (Act
36 of 1998), including Resource Directed Measures, waste-related water uses
and water quality management frameworks. Sound understanding of
ecological Reserve principles and aquatic ecosystem monitoring approaches,
including nationally recognized eco-status assessment frameworks.
Demonstrated ability to analyse scientific monitoring data and compile
structured technical reports. Knowledge of national water resource monitoring
systems will be advantageous. Strong reporting and organizational skills.
Ability and willingness to travel frequently and undertake field inspections and
site assessments.
DUTIES : Conduct strategic water quality and ecological monitoring, including analysis
of trends, risk identification and resource status assessments within the Water
Management Area. Support the development, alignment, and governance of
strategic water-quality monitoring networks, including ecological water
requirement sites, and ensure data integrity and reporting readiness.
Undertake site inspections and technical assessments during pollution
incidents to evaluate water-quality impacts, ecological risks, and potential
exceedances of Resource Quality Objectives, and compile evidence-based
reports and recommendations. Review and comment on environmental
submissions, including Scoping Reports and Environmental Impact
Assessment Reports, with a focus on water quality risks, waste-related
125
impacts, ecosystem integrity and compliance with Resource Directed
Measures. Provide technical input into the Catchment Management Strategy
and ensure protection requirements are integrated into allocation and
reconciliation processes. Provide evidence-based scientific support to
compliance directorates on water quality and waste discharge matters where
required. Contribute to continuous improvement of monitoring systems, data
governance and scientific reporting standards, and work collaboratively across
quantity and quality functions to address cross-cutting water resource
management challenges. Engage in stakeholder and technical forums to
communicate scientific findings and promote integrated catchment
management.
ENQUIRIES : MS. Namrata Jugwanth, Tel No: (083) 453 6410
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/148 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION A – C REF NO: PUCMA 32
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency
Division: Water Resource Planning And Management (Water Resources
Planning And Management)
SALARY : R761 157 - R1 144 008 per annum (all-inclusive OSD salary package) (Offer
will be based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Science Degree (BSc Hons) in Hydrology, Water Resources Management,
Environmental Science or relevant natural science qualification. Three (3)
years post-qualification scientific experience in hydrological modelling, water
balance assessments, reconciliation studies or allocation planning.
Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of the National
Water Act (Act 36 of 1998), including provisions relating to water use
authorization, allocation reform, stream-flow reduction activities and integrated
water resource management. Sound understanding of drought management
principles and climate variability impacts on water systems. Demonstrated
quantitative modelling and analytical capability with the ability to develop and
maintain decision-support tools. Knowledge of national water resource
information systems will be advantageous. Strong reporting and organizational
skills. Ability and willingness to travel frequently within the Water Management
Area and conduct field investigations.
DUTIES : Undertake hydrological and allocation modelling to support reconciliation
strategies, allocation reform and catchment resilience planning. Conduct water
balance and yield analyses to assess system performance, abstraction
pressures and allocation risk under variable climatic conditions. Maintain and
quality-assure hydrological datasets, water-use information, and decision-
support tools to strengthen allocation governance and planning integrity.
Conduct site verification visits and field investigations to validate modelling
assumptions, assess abstraction impacts and confirm system conditions.
Provide technical inputs during pollution incidents on flow regimes, dilution
capacity, and downstream system vulnerability. Review and comment on
environmental submissions, including Scoping Reports and Environmental
Impact Assessment Reports, with a specific focus on hydrological impacts,
cumulative abstraction, water availability, streamflow reduction and
infrastructure implications. Provide technical inputs into licensing and
allocation processes, including assessment of water availability and system
sustainability. Provide evidence-based scientific support to compliance
directorates on quantity-related matters where required. Contribute to the
technical development of the Catchment Management Strategy and work
collaboratively across quantity and quality functions to address cross-cutting
water resource management challenges. Ensure scientific integrity and
documentation of modelling methodologies and datasets. Engage in
126
stakeholder and technical forums to communicate scientific findings and
promote integrated catchment management.
ENQUIRIES : MS. Namrata Jugwanth, Tel No: (083) 453 6410
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/149 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS REF NO:
150426/07
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Head Office Dir: Technical Engineering
Support Services Sd: Quality Management Systems
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF Level 6 qualification is required. The candidate must have three
(3) to (5) five years’ experience in implementing ISO 9001 within a construction
or engineering-related environment, as well as three (3) to (5) five years’
experience auditing ISO 9001. Experience in implementing a Quality
Management System within an ISO 9001 certified organisation will be an
added advantage and must be clearly indicated in the application. The
candidate must demonstrate a sound understanding of business process
mapping and governance structures, as well as an excellent understanding of
ISO 9001 standard requirements and their practical implementation.
Knowledge of built-environment related regulations. The candidate must have
good communication skills, both verbal and written, as well as good project
management and presentation skills. Knowledge of Risk management
principles. Stakeholder engagement and management. The candidate must
have good computer skills and the ability to work independently. A valid Code
08 driver’s licence is essential, and the role requires extensive travel to various
construction and engineering sites nationwide. Completion of ISO 9001-related
courses will be an added advantage
DUTIES : Plan and coordinate quality management system activities to obtain ISO 9001
certification in a construction/engineering environment. Coordinate the
development of quality management system policies, guidelines, templates
and monitoring tools. Prepare and conduct presentations to stakeholders.
Stakeholder engagement. Ensure business process mapping activities are
conducted. Ensure effective document management systems are in place
aligned to organisational requirements. Ensure ISO 9001 certification is
maintained once certification is obtained. Plan and ensure implementation of
the auditing programme. Compile audit reports. Ensure management review
meetings take place timeously. Monitor customer satisfaction. Monitor actions
to address non-conformities. Reporting to management. Supervision of staff.
Ensure a high standard of quality is maintained in all
meetings/activities/reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Govender, Tel No: (012) 336 7005 / (082) 940 7763
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/150 : ASSISTANT PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: 150426/08
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Nw Cd: Provincial
Operations: North-West
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Leve 10)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 qualification in Civil Engineering. A certificate in project
management will be an added advantage. Five (5) years’ experience in
engineering field. Experience of programme and project management.
Understanding of legislative and policy frameworks governing the water sector
and water services infrastructure development grants, including the Division of
Revenue Act (DoRA) and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), among
127
others. Understanding of financial management. Knowledge of policy
development and implementation. Knowledge of conflict management tools
and methodologies. Understanding of legislative and policy frameworks
governing the public sector. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Good presentations, report writing, and networking skills.
Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Facilitate and support the implementation of water services infrastructure
development grant programmes, including Regional Bulk Infrastructure Grant
(RBIG) and Water Services Infrastructure Grant (WSIG), in line with the
requirements of the Division of Revenue Act (DoRA) and departmental policies.
Coordinate and administer the implementation of water supply and sanitation
infrastructure programmes and projects within municipalities and implementing
agents to ensure alignment with approved plans, targets, and deliverables.
Provide support in the appraisal and assessment of municipal infrastructure
grant applications, technical reports, and business plans to determine project
readiness and compliance with grant frameworks. Monitor and evaluate the
implementation and performance of RBIG and WSIG projects, including
conducting site visits and project verification to ensure compliance with
approved scope, timelines, and funding conditions. Coordinate project
reporting and compliance monitoring by municipalities and implementing
agents and consolidate reports for submission to management and Head
Office. Assist with RBIG and WSIG budget planning and allocations for the
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and monitor expenditure
against approved budgets. Support the management of grant disbursements
and financial administration to ensure funds are utilised in accordance with the
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and DoRA requirements. Facilitate
stakeholder engagement and coordination with municipalities, implementing
agents, and other sector partners to support effective programme
implementation. Maintain proper record keeping and filing systems for project
documentation, approvals, correspondence, and compliance reports related to
RBIG and WSIG projects. Assist with strategic planning processes, including
the compilation of the Annual Performance Plan (APP) and Operational Plan,
as well as monitoring and reporting on their implementation.
ENQUIRIES : S Velembo, Tel No: (018) 387 9549
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/151 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND OVERSIGHT REF NO:
150426/09
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: NW Cd: Provincial
Operations: North-West
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : Relevant NQF 7 in Auditing/Financial Management. Three (3) to (5) five years
supervisory experience in Auditing/ Financial Management. Sound
understanding of Anti-corruption strategy and fraud prevention measures.
Extensive knowledge of computerised, financial and business systems. Sound
understanding of PFMA, treasury Regulations and Cooperate Governance
issues. Sound understanding of strategic plan and Annual Performance Plan.
Sound understanding of investigation skills. A sound understanding of ERM
principles and philosophy. Computer literacy in Microsoft Office Suite.
Communication skills. Facilitation skills. Leadership skills. Strategic Support
Capability. Programme and Project Management. Change Management and
Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation (SDI). Problem solving
and Analysis. People and Diversity Management. Client Orientation and
Customer Focus. Accountability and Ethical Conduct.
DUTIES : Perform Enterprise Risk Management, Assist in the identification of strategic
Risk and the development of risk management strategies and management of
them. Facilitate enterprise -wide risk assessment and monitors priorities risks
across the department. Perform regular Inspections on both Main and Trading
Account. Identify compliance issues that require follow up or investigations,
implementation of planning, execution and reporting of inspection assignment
on both main and trading account. Perform preliminary investigations,
implementation of planning execution and reporting of investigation of
assignments on main and trading account. Co-ordination Internal and external
audits on both Main and Trading Account, Risk reporting, perform all pre-audit
128
checks on all documents, manage and coordinate audit related activities, assist
management with the investigations of fraud. Manage samples from AG and
internal Audits and manage responses
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Matsheka, Tel No: (018) 3879511/ (082) 806 8856
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/152 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF NO: 150426/10
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: NW CD: Provincial
Operations: North-West
SALARY : R551 493 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Civil Engineering. Six (6) years’ post qualification in
technical Engineering. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of
South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technician. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of technical design and
analysis of water and sanitation services infrastructure development.
Understanding of research and development. Knowledge and experience in
Computer-aided engineering applications. Knowledge of legal compliance and
Project management. Technical report writing. Good communication skills both
(verbal and written), conflict management and negotiation skills. Problem
solving and analysis, decision making, teamwork, creativity, financial
management, people management, customer focus, responsiveness, planning
and organizing. Must be prepared to work away from the office and travel
extensively for extended periods of time.
DUTIES : Provide technical support in the appraisal and assessment of technical reports,
designs, and business plans for Water Services Infrastructure Grant (WSIG)
projects. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of water and sanitation
infrastructure projects to ensure alignment with approved scope, technical
standards, targets, and deliverables. Conduct project site visits and technical
inspections to verify progress, quality of work, and compliance with approved
designs and specifications. Review and analyse engineering designs,
technical reports, and feasibility studies to ensure compliance with applicable
standards, policies, and legislation. Support the management and monitoring
of grant funding and ensure that project expenditure is aligned with the
requirements of the Division of Revenue Act (DoRA) and other applicable
financial frameworks. Facilitate and coordinate compliance reporting by
municipalities and implementing agents and consolidate technical reports for
submission to management. Provide technical advice and support to
municipalities and implementing agents on water and sanitation infrastructure
development and maintenance. Maintain proper record keeping and filing of
technical documentation, project reports, approvals, and correspondence
related to infrastructure projects. Support the planning, implementation, and
monitoring of water services infrastructure programmes to ensure sustainable
service delivery
ENQUIRIES : S Velembo, Tel No: (018) 387 9549
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/153 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER REF NO: PUCMA 33
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency Division:
Institutions, Stakeholder Engagement And Governance
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA in
communications, Public Relations, Journalism, Media Studies, or related field.
Three (3) years’ experience in the public sector or environmental/water sector
in the communication section. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license, Experience in stakeholder engagement and public participation
processes. Knowledge of Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM),
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) requirements, Government
communication systems and South African water legislation, knowledge of
techniques and procedures for the planning and execution of operations,
problems solving and analysis, conflict management, client orientation and
customer focus, creative and awareness. Skills: Excellent written and verbal
129
communication skills, Media liaison and crisis communication, Graphic design
and digital content creation (advantageous) and project management and
reporting. willingness to travel within the Pongola–Mtamvuna Water
Management Area and computer literacy (MS Office).
DUTIES : The Communication Officer plays a strategic role in promoting Integrated Water
Resource Management (IWRM), stakeholder participation, and transparent
governance in line with national water sector priorities. To develop, coordinate,
and implement internal and external communication strategies that enhance
stakeholder engagement, promote awareness of water resource management
issues, and support the mandate and programmes, fostering understanding,
building awareness, and creating a favourable perception of the Pongola-
uMzimkulu Catchment Management Agency. Communication Strategy and
Planning: Develop and implement the PUCMA Communication Strategy and
plans aligned with the Catchment Management Strategy (CMS), Strategic Plan
(SP), and Annual Performance Plan (APP); coordination of PUCMA events,
create actionable plans for securing media coverage of events and initiatives,
recommend amendments to existing policies to improve communication
effectiveness, ensure communication supports key focus areas such as
awareness campaigns in Water Allocation Reform (WAR), Water Quality
Management, Climate Change Adaptation, Compliance Monitoring and
Enforcement and coordinate awareness campaigns (e.g., World Water Day,
National Water Week, and other environmental days, etc). Dissemination of
Information and Stakeholder Engagement: ensure timely and accurate
dissemination of written and verbal communication materials to stakeholders,
draft and send written invitation to stakeholders for PUCMA events, assist in
crafting the strategic plan and budget management for the communication
section, foster and maintain positive stakeholder relations, handle event
logistics and venue management, update guest lists and maintain PUCMA
calendars, facilitate communication between PUCMA and water users and
other stakeholders such Water User Associations (WUAs), Local and District
Municipalities, Traditional Authorities and rural communities, farmers,
industries, government departments, and NGOs; support public participation
processes for water use licence applications (WULAs) and other programmes
of the CMA and assist in organising community outreach programmes and
school awareness initiatives within the Water Management Area. Media and
Public Relations: draft media releases, speeches, interna and external
newsletters, and stakeholder reports; manage media relations and respond to
public/media enquiries; coordinate crisis communication during droughts,
floods, pollution incidents, and water restrictions; and monitor media coverage
and prepare media analysis reports. Digital Communication and Branding:
manage and update the PUCMA website and digital platforms; develop social
media content aligned with government communication guidelines; design and
distribute Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) materials; and
ensure consistent corporate branding in line with government communication
standards. Internal Communication: develop internal communication tools to
enhance staff awareness and cohesion; coordinate internal newsletters and
staff engagement sessions; and Support change management communication
initiatives. Monitoring and Reporting: track communication performance
indicators in line with APP targets; compile monthly, quarterly, and annual
communication reports; and conduct stakeholder feedback surveys and
communication impact assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Nkosinjani Mkhize, Tel No: (082) 880 6086
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/154 : SENIOR INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: REF NO: 150426/11 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Director-General Dir: Internal Audit
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
130
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 in Accounting / Auditing. NQF Level 7 and above in Accounting
/ Auditing will serve as an added advantage. Two (2) years’ experience in
auditing environment. Over two years and/or completion of the OCIA/IAT will
serve as an added advantage. Water sector and/or local government
experience. Over 12 months experience in the water sector and/or local
government experience will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of
a valid unexpired driver’s license. Ability to drive both manual and automatic
vehicles. Knowledge and understanding on internal audit standards, audit
process and risk management principles. Knowledge and understanding of
king code on corporate governance. Knowledge and understanding of the
Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and Public Service
Act. Knowledge of government financial systems such as BAS, LOGIS and
PERSAL. Communicate to stakeholders. Compile Monthly Time Sheets.
Supervise Interns. Provide secretariat services during the audits
DUTIES : Performing the planning, execution and reporting phases of an audit in
accordance with the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) standards. Communicate
to stakeholders. Compile Monthly Time Sheets. Supervise Interns. Provide
secretariat services during the audits.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Mashau Tel No: (012) 336 7134
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/155 : ARTISAN FOREMAN GRADE A (MECHANICAL) REF NO: 150426/12
(Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations Dir: Operations
Central
SALARY : R382 047 per annum (OSD)
CENTRE : Bloemhof Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Trade Test Certificate in Millwright/ Fitter and Turner/Diesel Mechanic. Five
(5) years post qualification experience required as an Artisan. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Computer-computer literacy. Team leadership. Production, process knowledge
and skills. Ability to work independently and in a team. Knowledge of project
management. Planning, organizing and execution. Technical report writing.
Problem solving and analysis, decision making, creativity, self-management,
customer focus and responsiveness. Sound interpersonal and leadership
skills. Strong verbal and written communication skills. Financial and people
management. Willingness to travel throughout South Africa for the execution
of some duties.
DUTIES : Supervise technical design and production of technical services. Supervise
and produce design according to specifications and within limits of production
capability. Produce objects with material and equipment according to job
specification and recognized standards. Supervise the maintenance of
technical services. Repair mechanical/electrical equipment structures
according to standards. Service/maintain equipment according to schedule.
Perform administrative and related functions. Update register on maintained
and repaired faults. Compile and submit reports as required. Provide inputs to
the maintenance plan. Ensure adherence to safety standards, requirements,
and regulations. Human Capital resource management. Supervise and mentor
staff. Plan resources available and schedule maintenance work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. HS van der Westhuizen, Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/156 : GSIC TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A – C REF NO: PUCMA 34
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency
Division: Water Resource Planning And Management
SALARY : R359 671 – R586 665 per annum (OSD) (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in GIS Cartography or relevant qualification. Three (3)
years post qualification Technical (GISc) experience. Compulsory registration
with South African Geomatics Council (SAGC) as a GIS Technician. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license, willingness to travel within the
Pongola–Mtamvuna Water Management Area. Knowledge and competency on
understanding of GISc applications and spatial data queries. Understanding of
131
GISc theory, principles, and practices of GISc standards, understanding of
technologies such as GPS, photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, as well as
knowledge, capabilities and experience of working with GIS software such as
ArcGIS, QGIS or related geospatial platforms. Knowledge of spatial data
queries, data management and geodatabase administration, strong analytical,
problem-solving and decision-making skills, ability to work effectively in a team
environment, good communication, interpersonal and stakeholder
engagement skills, project management, planning and organizational skills,
and demonstrated self-management and customer service orientation. Data
management and reporting capabilities and understanding of water resource
management and environmental monitoring processes.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing and maintaining the
GIS Unit, including supervision of staff and coordination of GIS-related
activities. The incumbent will conduct functional requirements analysis and
perform technical GISc tasks to support water resource management within
the Pongola-Mtamvuna Water Management Area. The role includes producing,
maintaining, and updating GIS datasets and spatial databases related to water
resources. The candidate will develop maps and undertake spatial analysis to
support water resource monitoring, planning, and management within the
catchment area. The incumbent will assist with catchment planning, water
resource protection, and environmental monitoring using GIS tools and
technologies. Responsibilities will also include collecting, integrating, and
managing spatial data from various sources, ensuring data quality and
consistency. The successful candidate will provide GIS technical support to
scientists, hydrologists, and other technical staff within the organisation. The
role further involves maintaining metadata and ensuring compliance with
spatial data standards and best practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Zakhele Buthelezi, Tel No: (079) 694 6797
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/157 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OFFICER REF NO: PUCMA 35
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency
Division: Institutions, Stakeholder Engagement And Governance
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A Degree or National Diploma in Community Development, Development
Studies, Environmental Management, Social Sciences, Water Resource
Management, or related field. Minimum two (2) years’ post-qualification
experience in water resource management. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Knowledge of the National Water Act (Act 36 of 1998) and
other related legislations. Strong community facilitation and conflict resolution
skills, knowledge of integrated water resource management (IWRM),
understanding of rural development dynamics, report writing and presentation
skills, project coordination abilities, good interpersonal and communication
skills and ability to work in remote and rural areas. Willingness to travel within
the Pongola–Mtamvuna Water Management Area and computer literacy (MS
Office). Experience in water resource management or rural development will
be an added advantage.
DUTIES : To facilitate meaningful stakeholder participation, strengthen community
partnerships, and promote equitable and sustainable water resource
management within the Pongola–Mtamvuna Water Management Area. The
role supports transformation, water allocation reform, awareness campaigns,
and inclusive decision-making in line with the National Water Act and the Water
Services Act. Stakeholder Engagement and Participation: Identify and profile
stakeholders (rural communities, traditional authorities, farmers, municipalities,
industries, NGOs, youth and women groups), facilitate community meetings,
public consultations, and awareness campaigns, support establishment and
strengthening of Water User Associations (WUAs), support establishment and
132
strengthening of catchment management forums, and any other forums or
committees assisting in water resource management, and ensure inclusive
participation of historically disadvantaged individuals (HDIs). Assist WUAs in
business plan development. Community/ stakeholder Capacity Building:
Conduct education and awareness programmes such as Water conservation
and demand management, water quality protection, pollution prevention,
climate change adaptation; develop training materials and facilitate workshops
and promote career awareness in water and environmental sectors. Support
to Water Allocation Reform (WAR): Assist communities in understanding water
licensing processes; support emerging farmers in water use registration and
compliance and facilitate conflict resolution related to water access and
allocation. Communication and Advocacy: Serve as liaison between CMA and
communities.; prepare communication materials (reports, presentations,
newsletters); and promote CMA programmes such as river health monitoring
and catchment protection initiatives. Monitoring and Reporting: Compile
stakeholder engagement reports; maintain stakeholder databases; monitor
impact of community projects and submit progress reports and provide input
into Catchment Management Strategy (CMS) implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pravitha Jairam, Tel No: (082) 805 2626
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 11/158 : PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: 150426/13
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: NW CD: Provincial
Operations: North-West
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Leve 07)
CENTRE : Mmabatho
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification. One (1) to (2) two years’ experience in
project administration environment. Understanding of legislative and policy
frameworks governing the sector. Understanding of programme, project and
financial management. Knowledge of policy development and implementation.
Understanding of legislative and policy frameworks governing the public sector.
Good communication skills both (verbal and written). Knowledge of
presentation and report writing. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Render administrative and coordination support in the implementation of water
services infrastructure development grant programmes. Coordinate project
reporting, site visits, and verification of water infrastructure development
projects. Provide project financial administration support, including monitoring
expenditure and assisting with grant-related financial documentation. Monitor
and evaluate project activities to ensure that implementation aligns with
approved plans, targets, and deliverables. Maintain and manage proper filing
systems for all project-related documentation and correspondence with
Municipalities and Implementing Agents to ensure accurate record keeping and
easy retrieval of information. Compile and maintain a database of resource-
poor farmers as beneficiaries of rainwater harvesting programmes.
ENQUIRIES : S Velembo, Tel No: (018) 387 9549
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/159 : HUMAN RESOURCE REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: 150426/14
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Fs Cd: Provincial
Operations: Free State Dir: Corporate Support Services Sd: Human Resources
Management
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. A National Diploma in Records
Management/Archives or Human Resources Management will serve as an
added advantage. Appropriate experience in the registry will serve as an added
133
advantage. Computer literacy (Microsoft packages). Knowledge of human
resources functions and practices as well as the ability to capture data and to
operate computers. Basic knowledge and insight of human resources
prescripts. Basic knowledge of financial operating systems (PERSAL). Basic
knowledge of National Archive and Records Service of South Africa Act No. 43
of 1996. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of working
environment. Good communication skills (both verbal and written). Ability to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : Implement confidential filing system in the HRM Registry. Provide registry
counter services. Open files according to the approved file plan. File
documents according to the approved filing system. Handling of incoming and
outgoing correspondence and files. Render effective filing and record
management services. Keep and maintain file tracking system. Electronic filing
of approved submissions, memos and letters. Identify and process documents
to be archived and disposed. Keep a register of archived and disposed
documents. Complete index cards for all files. Receive and distribute mail.
Assist with other HR Administrative functions assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Matshiana, Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 11/150 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: PUCMA 36
Branch: Pongola-Umzimkhulu Catchment Management Agency
Division: Institutions Stakeholder Engagement And Governance
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Durban
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized three- year tertiary qualification in Administration or equivalent.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Exceptional organizational
and computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook, and PowerPoint. Proven
minute-taking skills, coupled with excellent verbal and written communication,
and strong organisational skills. Knowledge of the National Water Act (Act 36
of 1998) and of water resource management. The applicant must be willing to
travel throughout the province. Short-listed applicants will be subjected to
practical testing.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will provide administrative and logistical support to
facilitate stakeholder coordination, institutional development, and governance
processes within the Water Management Area. The incumbent will be
responsible for the following duties: providing administrative support by
organising meetings for the Institutions and the Stakeholder Engagement and
Governance Division. Assist with the coordination and organisation of
stakeholder meetings, workshops, and consultations with institutions such as
water user associations, catchment management forums, community
organisations, municipalities, and other stakeholders. Prepare and distribute
meeting notices, agendas, minutes, and reports. Assist with document
management, filing systems, and correspondence related to stakeholder
engagement activities. Support the Division in compiling reports,
presentations, and administrative documentation. Sending invites and meeting
documentation to all members of the catchment management forums
timeously: Drafting letters and correspondence to stakeholders; Respond to
general queries from stakeholders. Photocopying, and binding of documents
for distribution to stakeholders. Make travel, catering, and accommodation
arrangements. General control and procurement of office equipment and
stationery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Pravitha Jairam, Tel No: (082) 805 2626
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
NOTE : The Pongola-Umzimkulu Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
134
POST 11/151 : TRADESMAN AID REF NO: 150426/15 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations Dir: Operations
Southern SD: Water Resources Infrastructure Operations And Maintenance
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Breede/Gouritz
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of NQF level 3 (Grade 10 certificate or
relevant qualification). Six (6) months trade related experience. Basic
knowledge in maintenance of structures and managing the water distribution
for all government waterworks within the area of Office jurisdiction. Basic
knowledge in policy implementation. Basic knowledge in monitoring and
evaluation principles. Basic disciplinary knowledge in Occupational Health and
Safety. Basic disciplinary knowledge in Public Administration. Basic knowledge
in supporting water utilisation and water resources strategy. Basic knowledge
of flood controlling. Basic understanding of Government legislation.
DUTIES : Provide assistance in maintenance of facilities, vehicles, and equipment.
Repair, clean service and safe keeping of equipment and tools according to
standards. Do routine maintenance of electrical equipment. Do maintenance
of dam walls. Attend to all problems in the workshop. Keep structures clean
and their surroundings. Keep equipment in the store safe. Keep grids clean.
Lock the storerooms always. Repair equipment when necessary. Assist and
support the Artisan and other technical personnel in performing
mechanical/electrical services which include the following: maintenance and
repairs on equipment and perform inspections on tools and equipment after
returning from tasks. Loading and offloading equipment from vehicles. Clean
equipment and workplace when returning to the office. Report any
unserviceable and lost equipment to the Supervisor. The incumbent may work
away from the office for extended periods of time.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Makhubela, Tel No: (023) 880 0150
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area
135
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Free State Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity affirmative action
employer. It is our intention to promote representativity (race, gender and disability) in the Department
through the filling of these posts and candidates whose appointment/promotion/transfer will promote
representativity will receive preference.
APPLICATION : Quoting the reference number, must be forwarded to Mrs S Hlekiso, Private
Bag x02, Bloemfontein, 9301 or delivered by Hand to Mrs S Hlekiso in Room
228, 2nd Floor, Admin Building, Glen Email: recruitment@dard.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on form Z.83, obtainable from any Public
Service Department. Shortlisted candidates must provide certified copies of
required documents (Identity document, qualifications, etc) to HR before the
interviews, including South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation
reports for foreign qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification.
Applications: please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. If you have not heard from us within 4
months, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. Should, during
any stage of recruitment process, a moratorium be placed on the filling of posts
of the Department is affected by any process such as, but not limited to,
restructuring or reorganisation of posts, the Department reserves the right to
cancel the recruitment process and re-advertise the post at any time in the
future.
OTHER POST
POST 11/ : CHAIRPERSON: RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REF NO: RISK/2026
Term Of Office: 3 Years subject to renewal at the discretion of the Department.
Attendance of 4-5 Risk Management Committee meetings per annum
SALARY : The Chairperson will be remunerated per meeting for preparation and
attendance at a rate in accordance with Treasury Regulations 20.2.2 as per
National Treasury Directive
CENTRE : Glen: Office Of The HOD
REQUIREMENTS : Post-Graduate Qualification in or other relevant qualification in Risk
Management, Accounting, Auditing and Financial Management.
CA/MBA/MBL/CIA will be an added advantage. 7 – 10 years management
experience in Risk Management, Accounting or Auditing field. Excellent
knowledge of Risk Management and Corporate Governance, PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (ERM), COSO Model and
Public Sector Risk Management Framework. Experience in serving in
Oversight Committees. Knowledge of agriculture and rural development sector
will be an advantage
DUTIES : Assist the Accounting Officer in discharging his duties pertaining to risk
management. The candidate will chair the Departmental Risk Management
Committee and provide an oversight role in terms of the Public Sector Risk
Management Framework. Monitoring the implementation of the Risk
Management Policy and Strategy within the Department. Reviewing Risk
Management action plans to be instituted and ensuring compliance with such
plans. Integrating risk management into planning, monitoring and reporting
processes. Reviewing risk appetite and tolerance levels of Department.
Providing timely reports to the Head of Department and Audit Committee on a
quarterly basis including reports to other management or oversight structures.
Perform any other duties as prescribed by the Risk Management Committee
Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Crisp, Telephone number: 060 983 8291
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Applications For The Department Of Public Works And Infrastructure To Be
Submitted to: Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, Human Resources
Management Directorate. P.O Box 7551, Bloemfontein 9300 or Applications
that are hand delivered must be brought at the Foyer of or Tambo House where
they must be placed in the appropriately marked box at: Security Ground Floor,
136
or Tambo House, St. Andrews Street, Bloemfontein or e-mail to e-
recruitmentfsdpwi@fsworks.gov.za. No Applications Will Be Accepted By Staff
In Offices In The Building.
NOTE : Directions to applicants Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed
Z83 application form obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at http://www.info.gov.za. The Z83 should be completed in a manner
that allows the selection committee to assess the application based on the
information provided on the form. Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit
the Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day
of the interview following communication. If the certified copies contradict the
details on the CV or Z83 form, the candidate will automatically be disqualified
and removed from the shortlist. Should an applicant possess a foreign
qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Failure to submit the requested
documents will result in the application not being considered. Applicants must
indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted i.e. all the documentation must be submitted for each post applied
for. Applications received after the closing date and those that do not comply
with these instructions will not be considered. Candidates requiring additional
information regarding the advertised post should direct their enquiries to the
relevant person as indicated in the advertisement. Note: Successful completion
of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the
National School of Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Short-listed candidates will
on the day of interview undergo a security assessment. Suitable candidates
will be subjected to personnel suitability checks as deemed appropriate and
inclusive inter alia of criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial/asset record checks, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. If you have not been contacted within 4 months of the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. Faxed or late applications will NOT be accepted.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/152 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: EPWP REFE NO: PWI 26/01
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum. (Level 14) (An all-inclusive package) The remuneration
package consists of a basic salary (70%), the Employer contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's
allowance and medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Bachelor’s degree or equivalent
undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) as recognized by SAQA in one of
the following: Public Management / Administration, Social Sciences,
Developmental Studies, Political Science / Project Management / Built
environment equivalent. 5-7 years’ management experience in large scale
public employment or infrastructure programmes with at least 5 years at senior
management level. Computer literacy. Knowledge and practical understanding
of the legal framework governing the expanded public works programme,
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, labour intensive construction methodologies.
Expertise in monitoring and evaluation, intergovernmental systems and grant /
donor funding frameworks. Required skills and competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Strategic management, planning and execution.
Service delivery innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. People
management and empowerment. Financial management. Programme and
project management. Change management. Stakeholder and
intergovernmental coordination. Communication, negotiation, conflict
137
management and community liaison proficiency. Driver’s license (excluding
those with disabilities). Appointment is subject to the following: The Nyukela
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme. SMS Competency Assessments,
Performance Agreement, Vetting, SMS Permanent Employment Contract and
Financial Disclosure. NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to an ethics
(integrity conduct) assessment and technical test that intends to test relevant
technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be communicated.
DUTIES : To provide strategic direction and management in respect of Expanded Public
Works Programmes. Lead, support and co-ordinate all lead sector
departments, stakeholders or public bodies in the province towards the
implementation of the EPWP across all sectors, according to EPWP norms and
standards, for the purpose of creating work opportunities for unemployed
persons using labour intensive measures. Promote the implementation of
innovative and empowerment initiatives for stakeholders and beneficiaries, as
per EPWP norms and standards. Promote community development
programmes through the implementation of EPWP flagship programmes and
social facilitation that contributes to creation of work opportunities, asset
creation, and poverty alleviation. Enhance and communicate a positive EPWP
profile within the Free State province. Enhance EPWP delivery capacity at both
provincial and local government spheres within the Free State. Facilitate and
implement such. Ensure that the community-based projects are accounted for
in the Expanded Public Works Programme for budgeting purposes. Develop,
implement and manage the management Information System for EPWP.
Prepare monthly monitoring reports on the implementation of EPWP. Establish
learning network initiatives for best practices. Oversee the implementation of
EPWP learnerships. Establishment and implementation of support
programmes for EPWP beneficiaries who display potential for establishment of
small, micro and medium enterprises. Improving the quality of life of
communities within the province by way of community development
programmes. Management of human and other resources within the chief
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Mtolo – Acting Head of Department: Public Works and Infrastructure –
Tel No: 051 405 5230
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/153 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PROPERTY MANAGEMENT REF NO: PWI 26/02
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum. (Level 14) (An all-inclusive package) The remuneration
package consists of a basic salary (70%), the Employer contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's
allowance and medical aid assistance.
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree on NQF level 7 in the property management field / built
environment or business / public management augmented by 5-7 years’
experience in property or asset management of which at least 5 years at senior
management level. Knowledge of the legal framework applicable to the
property and related built environment sector inclusive of GIAMA, PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, governance principles related to supply chain
management in respect of acquisition, disposal and related functions or
processes for fixed assets. Driver license (code B) excluding persons with
disabilities. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and
leadership. Strategic management, planning and execution. Service delivery
innovation. Client orientation and customer focus. People management and
empowerment. Financial management. Programme and project management.
Change management. Municipal and stakeholder relations. Communication,
negotiation and conflict management. Skills computer literacy, disposition
towards digital transformation. Appointment is subject to the following: The
Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme. SMS Competency
Assessments, Performance Agreement, Vetting, SMS Contract and Annual
Financial Disclosure. NB: Shortlisted candidates will also undergo an ethics
assessment and technical tests.
DUTIES : To oversee, plan, and coordinate the strategic management of immovable
properties of the province which includes provision of accommodation for all
provincial departments and other government institutions as well as acquisition
and disposal of land and property. Oversee the implementation of the strategic
138
direction of property related issues to ensure alignment with departmental
business plan and strategic plan. Oversee the development and maintenance
of the property management strategy and policies. Strategically manage the
acquisition, registration and disposal of provincial land and property. Formulate
and maintain integrated information systems on all properties. Manage the
development and maintenance of the immovable asset and debtors registers.
Oversee the management of the lease and rental of property including the
management of contracts. Co-ordination of property maintenance services
including the cleaning and gardening services. Assist in identifying revenue
growth opportunities within government properties and optimize the
operational expenditure. Formulate and manage the chief directorate’s budget
against its strategic financial objectives. Manage the human, financial and
other resources allocated to the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Mtolo – Acting Head of Department: Public Works and Infrastructure –
Tel No: 051 405 5230
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/154 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: WORKS, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REF
NO: PWI 26/03
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum (Level 14) (An all-inclusive package) he remuneration
package consists of a basic salary (70%), the Employer contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's
allowance and medical aid assistance
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of at least a Bachelor’s degree or equivalent
in the Built Environment on NQF level 7 as recognized by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) in engineering, construction management,
architecture, construction project management. Registration as professional in
engineering or architecture or construction/project management or quantity
surveying. A minimum of 5 years of experience at senior managerial level in
the infrastructure sector with proficiency in maintenance programs,
infrastructure development, built environment risk, occupational health and
safety and construction project management. A valid driver’s license with
exception of persons with disability. Competencies: Strategic leadership people
management and empowerment, programme and project management,
financial management, change management, knowledge management,
service delivery innovation, problem solving and analysis, client orientation and
customer focus, communication. Working knowledge of the functioning of
national/provincial and local government. In depth knowledge, understanding
and proficiency related to Government infrastructure project planning,
construction management, maintenance and delivery. Extensive
understanding and knowledge of the built environment and government legal
framework inclusive of construction contracts, construction procurement and
Infrastructure Delivery Management System (IDMS). The Nyukela Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before appointment to
the post. SMS Competency Assessments, Performance Agreement, Vetting,
SMS Permanent Employment Contract and Financial Disclosure.NB:
Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to an ethics test and technical exercise
that intends to test relevant technical elements of the post, the logistics of which
will be communicated.
DUTIES : Lead and oversee the Chief Directorate to ensure that strategic objectives are
achieved in terms of the governing legal framework, good corporate
governance, compliance with the Infrastructure Delivery Management System
(IDMS) and within available financial resources in terms of PFMA. Provide
strategic management and leadership for the infrastructure and maintenance
plans for the Free State Province implemented by works regional offices in the
districts of Motheo/Xhariep / Thabo Mofutsanyane / Fezile Dabi and
Lejweleputswa for departmental infrastructure and that of sector clients.
Oversee the management, development and review of the Chief Directorate
infrastructure delivery plan and maintenance strategy as and when required to
enhance infrastructure delivery and to mitigate risk. Oversee and manage
relationships with contractors, consultants, and relevant stakeholders to
support infrastructure development and delivery. Oversee the management in
respect of processes, plans and budgets for condition and functional
139
assessment of infrastructure inclusive of any specific requirements outlined in
the Occupational and Health Safety Act and successful implementation
thereof. Facilitate the development and review of departmental infrastructure
and maintenance strategies / implementation plans, service delivery models
inclusive of labour intensive infrastructure methods required by the
infrastructure sector of the Expanded Public Works Programme. Oversee the
management of multi-disciplinary infrastructure teams and develop human
capital to ensure continuous supply of suitably qualified artisans, construction
health and safety and other professionals for improved infrastructure
performance. Manage the program budget, human and other resources
allocated to the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Mtolo – Acting Head of Department: Public Works and Infrastructure –
Tel No: 051 405 5230
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/155 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER REF NO: PWI 26/04
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum. (Level 14) (An all-inclusive package) The remuneration
package consists of a basic salary (70%), the Employer contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's
allowance and medical aid assistance
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification (NQF7) as
recognized by SAQA and a minimum 5 years of experience at a Senior
management level or equivalent. To ensure that potential SMS members have
a background on processes and procedures linked to the SMS, a further
requirement for appointment SMS level will be the successful completion of the
Senior Management Pre-entry Program as endorsed by the National School of
Government. This is a Public Service specific training program which will be
applicable for appointments at SMS level, and it must be noted that no
appointment shall be finalized without the relevant candidate producing the
pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). All the shortlisted candidates for SMS
must undertake a pre-entry practical exercise (Competency Assessment) as
part of the interview process based on the technical or generic requirements of
the post. Candidates will also be expected to do practical presentations as part
of the interview. Extensive knowledge and understanding of relevant policies
and legislations, e.g. PFMA, PSA, PSR, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, GRAP,
LRA, BCE, NT’s MCS, etc. Special requirements (skills needed): Financial
Management; Strategic planning; Project management; Financial GRC;
Financial reporting, Auditing, etc.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Develop, implement and maintain appropriate
mechanisms to timeously respond to the changing needs for financial
information, the interpretation thereof and the rendering of technical advice to
the Accounting Officer. Ensuring that the financial resources and assets of the
department are utilized effectively and economically to realize the objectives of
the strategic plan. Ensuring that all conditional grants and donor funds where
appropriate are properly managed and financial reports prepared. Provide
technical advice to line managers to ensure the equitable allocation,
maintenance and effective utilization of resources in line with the strategic
objectives of the department, legislative imperatives and good governance
arrangements. Meet the reporting requirements and standards under the
PFMA, Division of Revenue Act and financial statements. Ensure adequate
internal financial control arrangements and systems for the accountable
delegation of financial powers, asset security, monitoring, evaluation, early
warning and timeous corrective action. Assist the Accounting Officer by
applying cost benefit analysis principles assuring value for money. Oversee the
budgetary process within the department, exercise budgetary control and
provide at a strategic level early warning arrangements. Develop and facilitate
the implementation of the supply chain management system consistent with
legislative and other good governance arrangements. Oversee the preparation
and submission of the annual financial statements and liaison with the Auditor-
General in this regard. Assist with the implementation of the Division of
Revenue Act. Liaise with the relevant role-players within the three spheres of
government in the financial environment regarding transversal financial and
related corporate governance matters.
140
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S Mtolo – Acting Head of Department: Public Works and Infrastructure –
Tel No: 051 405 5230)
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/156 : DIRECTOR: FINANCE (FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION AND
ACCOUNTING) REF NO: PWI 26/05
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum. (Level 13)(An all-inclusive package) The remuneration
package consists of a basic salary (70%), the Employer contribution to the
Government Employee Pension Fund and flexible portion, which may be
structured in terms of the rules for the structuring of the flexible portion and
which may include a 13th cheque, motor car allowance, home owner's
allowance and medical aid assistanc
CENTRE : Head Office (Bloemfontein)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate BCom Accounting degree (NQF level 7) or equivalent in
Finance with proven 5 years of experience at a middle or senior managerial
level. Designation as Chartered Accountant (CA) or professional Accountant
with SAICA / SAIPA will be an advantage. The Nyukela Senior Management
Pre-Entry Programme is to be completed before appointment to the post.
Extensive knowledge of and experience in Public Service financial
management; Driver license (code 8); Appointment is subject to the following:
Performance Agreement, Personnel Suitability Checks, SMS Contract,
Competency Assessment, and Financial Disclosure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Strategically guide, manage and coordinate all
activities in the Directorate toward ensuring the effective and efficient
functioning of the directorate:- Develop and ensure the successful
implementation of an Annual Performance Plan for the Directorate: Finance
Administration and Accounting in alignment with the Directorate’s strategic
objectives and targets and other constitutional obligations/legislative
requirements applicable to the Directorate’s core business. Monitor and report
on the extent to which the Directorate Financial Administration and Accounting
its strategic objectives and targets and other priorities and commitments as per
the APP/National and Provincial Programmes of Action/ EXCO-FOHOD
Resolutions, etc. Implement measures to address shortcomings identified by
the Auditor General (AG), Audit Committee as well as shortcomings identified
by Internal Audit and/or Chief Risk Officer. Implement effective system in
conjunction with Supply Chain Management and other role players to ensure
payment of service providers within 30 days. Ensure sound management of
financial accounting systems and procedures in line with legislations and
policy:. Oversee the financial revenue, expenditure management and
accounting directorate by:- Monitor the policy and legislative framework to
ensure that cognizance is taken of new developments. Develop and maintain
policies and processes. Monitor revenue collected and expenditure incurred
and submit reports and plans as required. Monitor compliance with financial
prescripts. Provide advice and guidance to role players on revenue and
expenditure procedures. Oversee the management of revenue, expenditure
management and accounting work as required. Revenue management -
Ensure that cashier, banking, debt management, monitoring and reporting
services are rendered. Expenditure management – Ensure that payment for
compensation of employees, goods and services, transfers, subsidies and
reporting are efficiently and effectively performed. Accounting – To provide
financial administration and accounting services ledgers / journals, accounting
and reporting and preparation / oversight of interim / quarterly and annual
financial statements. Ensure and oversee the implementation of management
accounting systems. Oversee and manage the financial planning, budgeting
and reporting systems. Monitor the policy and legislative framework to ensure
that cognizance is taken of new developments. Develop and maintain policies
and processes. Monitor cash flow and submit cash flow reports and plans as
required. Ensure compliance with financial prescripts. Provide leadership and
guidance to role players on the use of forecasting methods and tools. Manage
financial planning, budgeting and reporting work as required. Planning –
Ensure that information for planning purposes are collected and analyse
properly. Budgeting – Manage, review, analyse and quality assure the budget
preparation process. Reporting – Coordinate, review, analyse and quality
assure the management accounting reporting processes. Manage the roll-over,
adjustment estimates and virement process. Ensure that information on the
requirement for role-over requests are disseminated to responsibility and
141
program managers. Ensure that all roll-over requests are considered, proposal
developed submitted to the CFO for consideration. Ensure that the all roll-overs
are incorporated in the adjustments budgets. Assess the need for additional
funds required from the adjustment estimates process through monitoring of
expenditure trends. Ensure the assessment of expenditure trends and the
development of proposals on the virement or shifting of funds. Manage the
directorate finance: - Procurement and asset management for the directorate.
Maintenance of discipline. Management of performance and development.
Undertake Human Resource and other related administrative functions.
Establish implement and maintain efficient and effective communication
arrangements. Develop and manage the operational plan of the sub-
directorate and report on progress as required. Develop implement and
maintain processes to ensure proper control of work. Compile and submit all
required administrative reports. Serve on transverse task teams as required.
Planning and allocate work. Quality control of work delivered by employees.
Provide financial technical advice and guidance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MS Tlali – Chief Financial Officer: Public Works and Infrastructure - (Tel No:
051 492 1746)
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/157 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CONTRACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: PWI 26 /06
Directorate Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum. (level 11) (All inclusive package)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant tertiary qualification at NQF level 7 in finance, commerce,
accounting, supply chain management, law or public management /
administration. 3 years related contract management experience at
supervisory / management Level (ASD). Knowledge of the regulatory
framework, relevant legislation inclusive of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations
and policy governing contracts within supply chain management context,
coupled with an understanding of applicable financial norms and standards.
Computer literacy, good communication and management skills.
DUTIES : To manage the sub-directorate: contract management. To develop, review, and
implement a contract administration service through the monitoring, reporting,
and execution of amendments, additions, adjustments, variations and addenda
to contracts. Manage the functional operation of the Sub directorate: Supply
Chain Contract Management. Manage, undertake and review the monitoring,
analyses and determination of actions to ensure proper contract administration.
Administer variations to contracts. Evaluate applications for price adjustments
and invoke penalty clauses. Evaluate applications for variations, amendments
and cancellations and develop proposals for approval. Undertake dispute
resolution and ensure that all documentation is prepared and available to
resolve disputes. Maintain proper relationship with suppliers within the code of
ethics to ensure delivery of goods/services. Manage the coordination, review
and monitoring of contract compliance and determine whether
product/services are delivered at the right time, of the right quantity, right
products, right place, right conditions, right quality and right price according to
the contract. Undertake the management of all administrative functions
required with regard to financial and HR administration. Maintenance of
discipline. Management of performance and development. Undertake Human
Resource and other related administrative functions. Establish implement and
maintain efficient and effective communication arrangements. Develop and
manage the operational plan of the sub-directorate and report on progress as
required. Develop implement and maintain processes to ensure proper control
of work. Compile and submit all required administrative reports. Serve on
transverse task teams as required. Procurement and asset management for
the sub directorate. Plan and allocate work. Quality control of work delivered
by employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. JM Scheepers, Acting Director: Supply Chain Management Tel No: 051
492 3862
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/158 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING (REF NO: PWI 2 6/07)
(2 POSTS)
Directorate Finance
142
SALARY : R486 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant Degree or equivalent tertiary qualification in Financial Management
on NQF level 7. 3 years relevant supervisory experience in Financial
Accounting / management at ASD level. Knowledge and understanding of the
legal framework, inclusive of the PFMA and Treasury Regulations, policy
coupled with the applicable norms and standards. Computer literacy, good
communication and management skills.
DUTIES : Oversee the identification and accurate recording of debts owed to the
department. Liaise with debtors in the most complex and problematic cases to
determine payback conditions and time span. Oversee the process of obtaining
the accounting officer’s approval for debt collection conditions. Obtain the
accounting officers approval for debt payback conditions and time span on the
cases handled. Oversee the accurate allocation of monies received. Oversee
and monitor income against budget and review reconciliations. Oversee and
undertake the develop of corrective measures when required. Oversee and
review disclosure notes on revenue collection. Oversee and collate financial
supporting information for planning purposes. Ensure completeness and
accuracy of financial information. Oversee the verification of the capturing of
payroll transactions on the accounting system. Oversee quality assure al
payroll transactions. Authorises reimbursement transactions on the accounting
system. Oversee the reconciliation of transactions (interface) on the payroll
(PERSAL) with the accounting system (BAS). Authorises payments to third
parties (employer contributions to pension funds, medical aid funds, tax
contributions and reconciliations etc.) outside the payroll system. Oversee
verification of information for payroll certification. Oversee verification of source
documents. Oversee the quality assurance and verification of transactions on
BAS/LOGIS. Ensure that expenditure is in line with budget and item
provisioning. Oversee the correct capturing of banking details on the
accounting system. Oversee creditor reconciliation (ensure that service
providers are paid timely and correctly). Oversee and reconcile payment
requests with budget provisions and the availability of funds. Oversee the
process to ensure that the relevant institution is eligible for a transfer
payment/subsidy and that they comply with the relevant financial legislative
requirements. Authorise the payment of transfers and subsidies processed on
the accounting system. Oversee the processing of information to determine
expenditure against budget. Review and analyse expenditure report, distribute
to budget holders and obtain inputs on expenditure status. Oversee the
compilation of interim and annual reports on conditional grants. Ensure the
safeguarding of all source documents. General supervision of employees.
Allocate duties and do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees.
Advice and lead supervisees with regard to all aspects of the work. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all
supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the
required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop, implement and monitor
work systems and processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CP Phanyane, Acting Director Finance – Tel No: 051 492 3716
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/159 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT (REF NO: PWI 26/08)
Office Of The Chief Financial Officer (CFO)
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 07) (A basic salary)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma or equivalent NQF Level 6 qualification
augmented with administrative experience. Knowledge and practical
application of Microsoft package i.e. word, excel, PowerPoint, etc. Proven
ability to apply knowledge and skills. 2 years’ experience in a secretarial or
administrative related environment. Computer literacy. Secretarial qualification
will serve as a strong recommendation.
DUTIES : Manage engagements of the CFO to improve service delivery. Implement
administrative measures to ensure the efficient functioning of the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer. Ensure an efficient flow of information and documents
to and from the Office of the CFO. Compile and distribute confidential
documents and cabinet memoranda and general correspondence to relevant
stakeholders. Deal with enquiries received, internally and externally to the
relevant stakeholders. Keep record of documents, memoranda, etc., which are
143
dealt with by the CFO. Do certain research for the CFO. Ensure the safe-
keeping of all the documentation in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer to
be in line with the Archive Legislation. Handle travel arrangements for the Chief
Financial Officer and assist with the CFO’s personal matters to enable her to
attend her duties. Set up and maintain systems in the Office of the CFO that
will contribute towards improving efficiency in the office. Compile and monitor
the budget for the Office to ensure the effective and efficient utilization of funds.
Promote professional behavior and ethics in the Office of the CFO to enhance
the image of the Public Service. Oversee the work of the subordinates of the
Office of the Chief Financial officer to ensure the co-ordination of activities,
manage the performance of the incumbents and to address development
needs.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MS Tlali – Chief Financial Officer: Public Works and Infrastructure - (Tel No:
051 492 1746)
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
144
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
NOTE : Requirement of applications: No late applications will be considered. No faxed
or emailed applications will be accepted. The Gauteng Department of Human
Settlements promotes equal opportunity and aims to implement affirmative
action measures to address the disadvantages in employment. Preference
may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated
groups in terms of the department’s equity plan. Candidates whose
appointment will promote representativity in terms of race, disability, youth &
gender will receive preference. Whites, Indians, Coloureds and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
should be submitted strictly online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za and it should
be accompanied by a new Z83 and a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV)
only. Certified copies of qualifications, Identity and valid driver’s license (where
driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the job) will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Correspondence will only be limited to shortlisted
candidates. If you have not been contacted within 3 months of the closing date
of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
For all SMS positions, the successful completion of the Public Service Senior
Management Leadership Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government and possession of the SMS Pre-Entry Certificate is required prior
to appointment. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Following the interview and exercise, the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic management competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
management and development for SMS posts. The Department reserves the
right not to make appointment(s) to the advertised post(s).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/160 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS PLANNING REF
NO: REFS/044103
SALARY : R1 813 182.per annum (All-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus NQF Level 8 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Town
Planning / Urban & Regional Planning, Architecture, Civil Engineering, Public
Management or equivalent post graduate qualification at NQF level 8. Master’s
degree would be an added advantage. A minimum of 8 years’ experience at
Senior Management level in Infrastructure/ housing delivery field. Possession
of the SMS Pre-Entry Certificate is required prior to appointment. Possession
of a valid driver’s license. The candidate should have in–depth knowledge of
the Construction Industry Development Board Act of 2000 and Regulations,
large scale human settlements planning, large scale programme and project
management, Town & Regional (T &R) legal and operational compliance,
Standard for infrastructure Procurement and Delivery Management of National
Treasury, National Spatial Development Perspective (NSDP), Property
registration processes, T & R systems, principles and procedures, and other
relevant regulations and prescripts. Competencies & Skills: Strategic capability
& leadership, Decision making, Compilation of management reports Change
management, financial management, Service delivery innovation, Problem
solving analysis, People management and empowerment. Customer focus and
responsiveness. Personal Attributes: Good written and verbal communication
skills. Self-management. Analytical skills and Creativity. Good Interpersonal
skills.
145
DUTIES : Lead and manage research and policy for human settlement sector. Provide
strategic guidance of integrated planning for short and long term sustainable
human settlements. Oversee the development and implementation of
infrastructure asset management plans for human settlements programmes
implementations. Oversee the management and monitor compliance of
Beneficiary Administration of and housing subsidy programmes for
beneficiaries. Oversee and provide strategic support on the development of
Informal Settlement and Rapid Land Release human settlements.
Management of the business unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Miyelani Tshabalala Tel No: 063 691 4046
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/
POST 11/161 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ASSET DISPOSAL AND RENTAL HOUSING REF NO:
REFS/044104
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (All – inclusive package)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric plus an appropriate bachelor’s degree (NQF level 7) as recognized by
SAQA e.g. Real Estate/Property Studies/Relevant Legal qualification in
property studies at graduate or post graduate level. A minimum of 5 years’
experience within Senior Management Level in Immovable Assets Disposal
environment. Possession of the SMS Pre-Entry Certificate is required prior to
appointment. Possession of a valid driver’s license. The candidate should have
knowledge and understanding of legislation governing immovable property
acquisitions and disposals, Rental Housing Sector, Knowledge of the PFMA,
Treasury Regulations and Planning Frameworks, knowledge of Public Service
Regulations, knowledge of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework and
knowledge of Property Valuations. Competencies: Strategic capability and
Leadership, People Management and empowerment, Programme and Project
Management, Financial Management and Change Management. Conflict
resolution, Innovation, Mediation, Time management, advanced computer
skills, Honesty and Integrity. Personal Attributes: Good written and verbal
communication skills. Analytical and presentation skills. Team building and
networking skills.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction for the development, implementation of legislation,
policies, and strategies on immovable assets disposal, rental housing support
services aligned to national and provincial housing framework(s) including
providing administrative, secretariat and complaints management support
services to the Rental Housing Tribunal Represent the department in a
strategic advisory role at all immovable assets disposal governance structures.
Ensure development and implementation of rental housing policy frameworks,
business processes and procedures. Manage and administer immovable asset
disposal processes, dispute resolution, mediations, adjudications, and tribunal
hearing processes. Develop and administer +file audits, maintenance of case
management system and mediation and tribunal tracking tool(s). Oversee
appeals, rescissions and variations processes to Rental Housing Tribunal
ruling(s). Oversee processes leading to legal transfers. Oversee the
identification and packaging of the township /projects where development has
been completed to develop a credible annual business plan. Management of
the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mogaswa Tel No: 072 313 8052
APPLICATIONS : Please apply online at https://jobs.gauteng.gov.za/
146
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted to: The Acting Director-General, KwaZulu-Natal
Office of the Premier, Private Bag X9037, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand
delivered to: The Chief Director: Strategic Human Resource Management,
Office of the Premier, 1st Floor, Invesco Centre, 16 Chatterton Road,
Pietermaritzburg, 3201 and marked for the attention of Ms T.W. Zulu.
“Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applicants can submit their Z83 and
CV directly to the following email address recruitment@kznpremier.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026
NOTE : Applications submitted electronically will be taken as a final application and
may not be amended or supplemented in any way after the closing date
indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Government
reserves the right not to make this appointment. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Failure to comply with the above instructions
will result in the disqualification of your application. NB: All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise/ practical test that intends
to test the relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
assessment, candidates recommended for appointment at the SMS level will
be required to produce a Pre-entry certificate for the course offered by the
National School of Government (NSG) prior to their appointment. The course
is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and
the full details can be obtained by following the link:
https://www/thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-entryprogramme. All SMS
posts have been identified to target females and people with disabilities in order
to achieve the 50% and 2% targets respectively, in line with National Cabinet
Directive. The successful candidate will be required to undergo security
clearance and to disclose financial interests in accordance with the regulations.
The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Government is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer and preference will be given to suitably qualified candidates
from designated groups in terms of Employment Equity Act, 1998. The
Department reserves the right not to make these appointments.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/162 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT REF NO: KZNDARD/HOD/03/2026
(5 Year Fixed-term contract)
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (Level 16) plus a 10% non-pensionable Head of
Department allowance. The inclusive remuneration package includes a 30%
portion which may be structured according to the individual’s needs. (Inclusive
remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Public
Administration/ Management/ Agricultural related fields as recognised by
SAQA 10 years senior management experience in the relevant field Computer
Literacy SMS pre-entry certificate (Nyukela) a valid, unendorsed driver’s
licence. Knowledge and Skills: Significant managerial capability and
experience in providing strategic leadership and direction in the sector
Knowledge and understanding of the following: the role of Agriculture and Rural
Development within the Province and South Africa Developmental agenda of
the provincial government Development of relevant policies and strategies
Administration of policy Agriculture and rural development needs, legislation
and the mandate of the Department/ Province PFMA and Treasury Regulations
Strong project management skills Excellent communication and presentation
skills Ability to work well under pressure Skilled in the arts of facilitation and
able to cultivate good stakeholder relationships Advanced financial
management capabilities A multi-skilled dynamic leader who understands the
operational environment of the public service, its service delivery imperatives
147
and the divergent needs of the various constituents Self-motivated professional
with experience in providing strategic leadership Ability and experience to
successfully manage special projects as identified by the Administration and
the Executive Authority Computer literacy skills Ensure integrated risk
management and the implementation of minimum information security
standards.
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: Support the MEC for Agriculture & Rural Development on
all matters pertaining to Agriculture and Rural Development in the Province
Provide strategic leadership and management to the Department in the
provision of integrated agricultural development services Establish and
manage strategic partnerships with relevant stakeholders Facilitate the
formulation and implementation of sustainable development and
empowerment strategies and initiatives at the local and provincial level to meet
the needs of KZN Provide advice to the MEC for Agriculture & Rural
Development on the Department’s performance, operations and the realisation
of the strategic plan for the Department as contained in the performance
agreement Provide effective and efficient administrative systems Provide
advice and support services to the MEC in line with the relevant legislation
Promote the principles of holistic integrated development planning, cooperative
governance, economics and efficiency in both in agriculture and rural
development in the Province Ensure appropriate processes, structures and
policies in relation to the growth of the Agriculture and Rural Development
mandate Provide strategic management of veterinary services Ensure sound
financial management of the expenditure of the Department and manage the
budget as the Accounting Officer Represent the Department on Provincial,
National and International platforms Ensure the establishment of relevant
boards, structures and policies to facilitate the management of Agriculture and
Rural Development in line with the vision and mission of the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S.G. Ngubane Tel. No. 087 743 8922
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE AND TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : To Be Posted To: The Chief Director, Human Resource Management &
Development, Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs,
Private Bag X9078, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or Hand Delivered To: The Chief
Registry Clerk, 2nd Floor, South Tower, Natalia, 330 Langalibalele Street,
Pietermaritzburg for the attention of Ms NB Mabaso-Macaringwe Applicants
may also submit their Z83 and CV via the e-Recruitment System on
www.eservices.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
NOTE : To Applicants: Applications must be submitted on the new Application for
Employment Form (Z83) available from any Public Service Department and
should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV. The Department discourages
applications sent by registered mail and will not be held responsible for
applications sent via registered mail which are not collected from the post
office. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical assessment
and an ethics assessment. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that
the application reaches the Department timeously. Failure to comply with any
instruction will disqualify applicants. Appointment is subject to a positive
outcome on the following checks (Security Clearance, Citizenship, qualification
verification, criminal records, credit records and previous employment). Faxed
or late applications will not be accepted. Should applicants not receive any
response from the Department within three months of the closing date, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment,
the logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. The
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer and is
committed to empowering people with disability.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/163 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR REF NO: 30/2026 (TRA)
Chief Directorate: Traditional Resource Administration
12 months contract appointment.
148
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a National Diploma or NQF Level
6 qualification as recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA) in Administration e.g Public Administration or Business Administration
coupled with 3 years’ junior management experience in Administration and a
valid code B driver’s licence. Essential Knowledge, Skills And Competencies
Required: The successful candidate must have:- Sound knowledge of
interpretation of relevant legislation; knowledge of functionality of
Provincial/Local Houses; knowledge of the traditional sphere of governance;
knowledge of departmental polices and guidelines; knowledge of public service
legislation; planning and organisation skills; problem solving and decision
making skills; good project planning skills; good financial management skills;
good minute taking skills; Good communication skills (verbal and written) and
excellent computer knowledge. (Microsoft Office Package).
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: The successful candidate will be required to provide
operational support to the office of the Chairperson/Deputy Chairperson of the
Provincial House of Traditional Leaders with the following responsibilities:-
Coordinate and integrate the activities for the Chairperson/Deputy Chairperson
of the Provincial House of Traditional Leaders; Facilitate strategic partnerships
between the Chairperson/Deputy Chairperson, Department and relevant
stakeholders; Manage outstanding matters between the Chairperson/Deputy
Chairperson and all key stakeholders; Manage administrative support for the
Chairperson/Deputy Chairperson; Provide input in the development of policies,
strategies, procedures and processes; Manage the resources of the unit.
ENQUIRIES : MS PN Mtshali At Tel No: 033 897 5644
POST 11/164 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF NO: 31/2026 (TRA)(2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Traditional Resource Administration
(12 months contract appointment)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must be in possession of a National Diploma, NQF Level
6 qualification in an Administrative environment coupled with 3 years’
experience in an administrative environment and a valid code B driver’s
licence. Essential Knowledge, Skills And Competencies Required: The
successful candidate must have:- Sound knowledge of interpretation of
relevant legislation; knowledge of functionality of Provincial/Local Houses;
knowledge of the traditional sphere of governance; knowledge of departmental
polices and guidelines; knowledge of public service legislation; planning and
organisation skills; problem solving and decision making skills; good project
planning skills; financial management skills; good minute taking skills; Good
communication skills (verbal and written) and excellent computer knowledge.
(Microsoft Office Package).
DUTIES : Key Responsibilities: The successful candidate will be required to provide
operational support to the Office of the Chairperson of the Provincial House
with the following responsibilities:- Provide secretariat services at meetings;
Provide administrative support to the Office of the Provincial House
Chairperson; Facilitate quality assurance and compliance; Provide supply
chain, human resource and policy administrative services within the Office of
the Chairperson.
ENQUIRIES : MS PN Mtshali At Tel No:033 897 5644
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
“We strive to create an environment that brings the power of diversity to life and as such, this
Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote inclusiveness
in all occupational levels in the Department”.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/165 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENTS MTS
Cluster: Infrastructure Development
SALARY : R1 494 900.per annum (Level 14)(An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
149
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA, Senior certificate,
Degree in the Built Environment; Including 5 years’ experience as a Senior
Manager, Professional registration with a relevant statutory council, Extensive
senior management experience in infrastructure development and
maintenance, Demonstrated knowledge of PFMA, Treasury Regulations and
IDMS, Unendorsed valid driver’s license, Computer literacy: Microsoft Word,
Microsoft Excel and Microsoft PowerPoint NB: For the Pre-Entry Certificate for
SMS, any individual may register for the course and complete such in
anticipation of wishing to apply for a SMS post in future. The course is available
at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details
can be sourced by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
courses/sms-pre-entry-programme/.Individuals who have completed the
course already, and who are therefore in possession of a certificate are
welcome to submit such, however it is not required that an applicant submit
such when applying for the post prior to the closing date. However, prior to an
appointment being made to any SMS post, the appointee to such a post must
have completed the pre-entry certificate and must be in possession of such
prior to taking up the post All shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
proof of work experience endorsed and stamped by the employer/s prior to the
date of the interview.
DUTIES : Skills And Competencies In-depth knowledge and application of PFMA, Supply
Chain Management Framework, PPPFA, Treasury Regulations and other
related policies, Extensive knowledge and understanding of Financial
Management, Human Resource Management, Performance Management
(EPMDS), Strategic Management, Public Sector Reporting procedures,
Procurement Processes and Risk Management, Strategic Infrastructure
Planning Competencies (IPMP Stage: Planning), Infrastructure Programme
and Project Management (IPMP Stage: Procurement and Delivery),
Infrastructure Maintenance and Asset Management (IPMP Stage: Operations
and Maintenance, Strong Internal Control (Ensuring Processes are followed to
prevent Audit Queries), Infrastructure Performance Monitoring, Evaluation and
Reporting, Infrastructure Contract Management, Management and
Supervisory Skills, Good Communication (verbal & written), Good Planning
and Organizational Skills, Problem Solving and decision making, Strong team
leader, Professional and Client Orientated, Negotiation Skills, Conflict
Management Skills, Leadership Skills, Time Management Skills, Report Writing
Skills. Infrastructure Programme And Project Management: Infrastructure
Program Management Plan (Ipmp: Procurement And Delivery): Ensuring that
Planning and Delivery of Projects is done in line with the Division of Revenue
Act (DORA) and other relevant legislation, Manage the development and
Submission of UAMP (User Asset Management Plan), IPMP (Infrastructure
Program Management Plan), and End of Year reports to Treasury, Manage the
development and submission of the AIP (Annual Implementation Plan) to the
National Health, Manage submission of IRM (Infrastructure Reporting Model)
to Treasury, Manage Infrastructure Finance Unit, Manage Real Estate Unit.
Manage Implementation Of Capital Projects In Infrastructure Development
Manage Planning of Construction Projects, Manage Implementation of
Construction Projects, Manage the performance of Implementing Agents in the
delivery of Infrastructure Projects, Ensuring implementation of the EPWP
Program on all Capital Projects, Manage the budget allocated and Expenditure
on all Capital Projects, Ensuring reporting on PMIS (Project Management
Information System) Infrastructure Maintenance And Asset Management (:
Operations And Maintenance: Manage the maintenance of health facilities
across the province, Manage the provision of professional engineering services
to Institutions, Manage the acquisition and deployment of maintenance
resources., Develop Asset Register for Mission Critical Plants, Ensure 3 Year
Maintenance Contracts are in place. Financial Management And Budget
Oversight (PFMA Compliance) Develop and manage capital infrastructure
budgets within the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework., Ensure effective
expenditure management and prevention of overspending, Implement cost
control mechanisms and value-for-money principles in infrastructure
development, Provide financial performance reports to senior management
and oversight bodies, Ensure alignment between infrastructure spending and
approved budgets. Leadership And Human Resource Management Lead
multidisciplinary infrastructure teams including engineers, architects and
project managers, Implement performance management systems for
infrastructure units, Develop technical capacity within the infrastructure
150
management branch, Promote ethical leadership and accountability
Monitoring, Evaluation And Reporting Monitor infrastructure programme
performance against approved plans, Prepare reports for executive
management, Treasury and oversight committees, Implement performance
indicators for infrastructure delivery, Support internal and external audit
processes. Manage The Health Technology Services: Oversee Medical
Equipment Procurement Plan, Ensure minimum downtime of medical
equipment, Ensure successful Commissioning of Medical Equipment in
completed facilities, Oversee SLA's for maintenance of Medical Equipment
includes monitoring and evaluation, Manage Budget and Expenditure allocated
under Health Technology Services, Manage resources allocated under Health
Technology Services Manage Laundry Services For The Department Manage
in-house laundry services of the Department, Determine policies, norms and
standards for Laundries, Operational logistics management for laundry
services , Equipment and infrastructure procurement, upgrades and
maintenance oversight, Financial and supply chain governance in laundry
services, Occupational healthand safety management for laundry services.
ENQUIRIES : MRS TP Msimango Tel No: 033-395 2799
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” “Applicants may also visit any one of our
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will
assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can
find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.”NB: //Applications for these posts can be
dropped off at your nearest Health Facility. All Applications Should Be
Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource Management Services
Kzn Department Of Health Private Bag X9051 Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand
Deliver to: 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia Building, REGISTRY, Minus 1:1
North Tower (Attention: Mrs B Shelembe): 033-395 2694
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA.
Applicants are to provide proof when they have been shortlisted for interviews.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants: Please ensure
that you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference
number. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of
the advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/166 : CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: VARIOUS HEALTH CENTRES
Cluster: District Health Services
SALARY : R1 059 105.per annum (Level 12) (An All-Inclusive MMS Salary Package)
CENTRE Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital Ref No: 10/2026 (X1 Post)
Ceza Hospital Ref No: 11/2026 (X1 Post)
ST Appollinaris Hospital Ref No: 12/2026 (X1 Post)
Mbongolwane Hospital Ref No: 13/2026 (X1 Post)
151
Benedictine Hospital Ref No: 14/2026 (X1 Post)
Eshowe Hospital Ref No: 15/2026 (X1 Post)
Untunjambili Hospital Ref No: 16/2026 (X1 Post)
Charles Johnson Memorial Hospital Ref No: 17/2026 (X1 Post)
Kwamashu Community Health Centre Ref No: 18/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate (Grade 12), PLUS A degree/advanced diploma in a health-
related field, PLUS A degree/diploma in health management Or a
degree/advanced diploma in a management field; PLUS Registration with
relevant professional council; PLUS At least 5 (five) years’ relevant
management experience in the health sector or as a health service manager
with management experience in a health service environment (non-clinical);
PLUS Unendorsed valid Code B driver’s license (Code 08).NB: All shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and
stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview. Knowledge, Skills,
Training And Competence Required: Knowledge: Knowledge of relevant
legislation such as National Health Act, Public Finance Management Act
(PMFA), Public Service Act and related regulations and policies. Core
Competencies: Strategic capability and leadership, programme and project
management, financial management, change management, people
management and empowerment. Progress Competencies: Service delivery
innovation, knowledge management, problem solving and analysis,
communication, client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas:- Job Purpose To plan , direct co-ordinate and manage
the efficient and delivery of clinical and administrative support services through
working with the key executive management team at the hospital within the
legal and regulatory framework , to represent the hospital authoritatively at
provincial and public forums, to provide strategic leadership to improve
operational efficiency within the health establishment to improve health
outcomes. Strategic Planning: Prepare a strategic plan for the Hospital to
ensure that it is in line with the 10-point plan, national, provincial, regional and
district plans. Financial Management: Maximise revenue through collection of
all income due to the Hospital, ensure that adequate policies, systems and
procedures are in place to enable prudent management of financial resources,
planning of financial resource mobilisation, monitoring and evaluation, asset
and risk management. Facility Management: Ensure business support and
systems to promote optimal management of the institution as well as optimal
service delivery, ensure that systems and procedures are in place to ensure
planning and timeous maintenance of facilities and equipment. Human
Resource Management: Develop, implement and maintain human resource
management policies and guidelines, systems and procedures that will ensure
effective and efficient utilisation of human resources, promote a safe and
healthy working environment through compliance with relevant legislation
including occupation health and safety committees. Ensure continuous
development and training of personnel and implement monitoring and
evaluation of performance. Procurement and Management of Equipment and
Supplies: Implement a procurement and provisioning system that is fair,
transparent, competitive and cost effective in terms of provincial delegated
authority and in line with the PFMA, ensure that goods and services are
procured in a cost-effective timely manner. Clinical and Corporate Governance:
Oversee clinical governance to ensure high standards of patient care, establish
community networks and report to the Hospital. Responsible for corporate
governance inclusive of infrastructure planning and maintenance as well as
occupational health and safety, manage the institution’s risk to ensure optimal
achievement of health outcomes. Implement good governance, transparency,
and accountability practices. Drive the hospital and its catchment clinics
towards achieving and sustaining a Clean audit. Responsible for providing
strategic leadership and overall management of all health services within the
hospital and its catchment area, ensuring the delivery of high-quality, equitable,
and patient-centred care across the facility and associated clinics, while driving
compliance, efficiency, and continuous improvement. Effectively manage and
optimise all resources under your stewardship, including physical, and
technological assets, to ensure efficiency, accountability, and maximum impact
on service delivery. Drive and implement innovative strategies that advance
progress towards Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in alignment with the
National Health Insurance (NHI) framework. Build and maintain strong
relationships with community structures, oversight bodies, NGOs, and other
health sector partners. Participate in Operation Sukuma Sakhe (OSS) and
152
other intersectoral collaborations. Ensure hospital and catchment clinics on
readiness for audits, inspections, and quality assurance assessments.
Promote a positive organisational culture.
ENQUIRIES : MR J Mndebele Tel No:033-395 3274
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details. “Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” “Applicants may also visit any one of our
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will
assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can
find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB: //Applications for these posts can be
dropped off at your nearest Health Facility. All Applications Should Be
Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource Management Services
Kzn Department Of Health Private Bag X9051 Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand
Deliver to: 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia Building, REGISTRY, Minus 1:1
North Tower (Attention: Miss N. S. Buthelezi)
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA.
Applicants are to provide proof when they have been shortlisted for interviews.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants: Please ensure
that you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference
number. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of the
advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. NB:
Please note that the Selection Committee reserve the right to assign you to
any location based on service delivery needs.
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
POST 11/167 : MEDICAL REGISTRAR
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum (This is an all-inclusive flexible remuneration package
that may be structured according to specific rules). Applicants to note: Salary
package is subject to OSD determination plus commuted overtime depending
on needs of the Discipline/Institution.
CENTRE : Various (KZN)
Anesthesiology, Pain Medicine & Critical Care: REG.21/2026
Cardiothoracic Surgery: REG 22/2026
Family Medicine: REG 23/2026
General Surgery: REG 24/2026
Internal Medicine: REG 25/2026
Neurosurgery: REG 26/2026
Obstetrics & Gynaecology: REG 27/2026
Occupational Medicine: REG 28/2026
Ophthalmology: REG 29/2026
Paediatrics & Child Health: REG 30/2026
Pathology (Forensic Medicine): REG 31/2026
Psychiatry: REG 32/2026
153
REQUIREMENTS : Tertiary qualification (MBCHB) or equivalent (MEDICAL); Registration
certificate for Independent Practice with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as a Medical Practitioner; Current Annual Practicing Certificate
from Health Professions Council of South Africa; Twelve (12) months post
Community Service experience as a Medical Officer as at closing date of this
advert; Valid driver’s license; Relevant Discipline Specific Minimum
Requirements below (depending on the Discipline): Anesthesiology, Pain
Medicine & Critical Care: Minimum 12 months full-time experience in
Anesthesia post-Community Service and DA (SA) (or equivalent) and FCA Part
1 examination (or equivalent).Cardiothoracic Surgery: FCS Primary Exams and
ATLS Course. Family Medicine: Minimum 6 months’ full-time experience in
Family Medicine. General Surgery: 12 months experience in the Discipline
(incl. Emergency Department or other surgical disciplines i.e. ENT, Urology,
Orthopedics) and FCS(SA) Primary exam and ATLS Internal Medicine:
Minimum 12 months experience in Internal Medicine and FCP Part I or Diploma
in Internal Medicine and At least 3 months experience in the Discipline in a
District or Regional Hospital (post-community service) Neurosurgery: Minimum
6 months experience in Discipline and Primary exams. Obstetrics &
Gynecology: Minimum 12 months experience in the Discipline at a Regional
Hospital or at a hospital with a busy maternity unit (at least 300 deliveries per
month) and FCOG Part I. Occupational Medicine: Postgraduate Diploma in
Occupational Health (DOH) or equivalent and 12 months Occupational Health
experience, or experience in Worker's Health.Ophthalmology: Minimum 6
months experience in Ophthalmology and FC Ophthalmology (SA) Part I
Paediatrics & Child Health: Minimum 6 months experience in the Discipline in
a Regional hospital and FC Paeds Part I or Diploma in Child Health. Pathology
(Forensic Medicine): Nil Psychiatry: Minimum 6 months experience in the
Discipline and either FC Psych I or Diploma in Mental Health (or
equivalent).Basic knowledge of Medical Practice Ethics, ability to manage
patients independently, ability to learn, innovate and be prepared to work
overtime, good interpersonal skills, an interest in conducting research,
knowledge and respect of the Patients’ Rights Charter and Batho Pele
Principles.
DUTIES : Participation in academic and teaching programmes and meetings in the
respective Departments, responsibility for care of patients at designated
levels/sites, e.g. Outpatients, Wards, Theatres, ICUs etc., management of
patients under supervision, attendance at ward rounds and/or tutorials,
supervision and teaching of undergraduates, provision of after-hours care for
emergency services, clerking and keeping of comprehensive records of
patients in the hospital file, outreach activities as deemed necessary by the
Clinical Supervisor, Personal development to the level of independent
specialist practice in the chosen field.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R Erasmus Tel No: 033 395 2742 /2472 /2669 3347
Anaesthesiology And Critical Care: Prof D. Gopalan Tel No: 031-260-4472
Cardiothoracic Surgery: DR. N. Ndibi Tel No: 031-240-2114
Family Medicine: Prof B Gaede Tel No: 031-260-4484
General Surgery: Prof B Phakathi Tel No: 031-260-4064
Internal Medicine: Prof N. Magula Tel No: 031-260-4242
Neurosurgery’: Dr. B. Enicker Tel No: 031-240-1134
Obstetrics & Gynaecology: Prof M. Sebitloane Tel No: 031-260-4390
Occupational Medicine: Prof R Naidoo Tel No: 031-260-4385
Ophthalmology: Dr. N. Mathe Tel No: 031-260-4341
Paediatrics & Child Health: Dr L Mubaiwa Tel No: 031-260-4348
Pathology (Forensic Med): Prof Mfolozi Tel No: 031 260 2580
Psychiatry: Prof B. Chiliza Tel No: 031-260-4321
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be addressed to Human Resource Management
Services, Registrar Programme, Department of Health, Private Bag X9051,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand deliver/ courier to Human Resource
Management Services, Registrar Programme, 330 Langalibalele Street,
Natalia Building, Room 6-106 South Tower Applicants are discouraged from
sending applications through registered mail as the Department will not be
responsible for non-collection of these applications. No late applications will be
accepted. Applications can also be submitted through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs Applications submitted though the
online platforms must include copies of all documents listed above. Original
certified copies of qualifications and other relevant documents will be
154
requested from shortlisted candidates which must be submitted on the day of
the interview.
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs R Erasmus, Human Resources, Tel 033 395 2742/2472/ 2669/ 3347
NOTE : Training will take place at various sites for each discipline. Registrars may be
required to spend time at various training institutions as required by the
discipline. The site for the 1st year of training and subsequent rotations will be
determined by the Academic Head of Discipline. Applicants are requested to
apply separately for the disciplines of their interest. A maximum of three
applications will be allowed which should be ranked in order of preference. One
application for various Disciplines will not be accepted. Applications from
applicants who are already appointed in the Registrar Programme will not be
considered. As per HPCSA Regulations, the duration of Registrar training is
4/5 years, depending on the Discipline. All Registrars will be expected to
register with the university for the MMED at own expense. All Registrars will be
required to sign a contract which includes training AND service responsibilities.
Registrars will be required to complete Performance Agreements and
assessments as stipulated by the Department. Appointments are subject to the
signing of a contract which includes a service pay-back period. Please note
that proof of successful completion of the required examinations as indicated,
is a pre-requisite and must be submitted if invited to an interview. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The following documents must be
submitted: Applicants must utilize the most recent Application for Employment
Form (Form Z83) as issued by the Minister for DPSA (gazetted on 06
November 2020 - 81/971431 effective 01 January 2021) in line with regulation
of 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016 and the information template
which is provided to ensure the fair consideration of suitably qualified
applicants and which is obtainable from the website - www.kznhealth.gov.za.
Copies of Qualifications, Registration Certificates and driver’s license must not
be submitted when applying for employment. Only shortlisted candidates will
be requested to bring certified copies on or before the day of the interview. The
post reference number must be indicated in the column provided on the form
Z.83. It is the responsibility of those applicants with foreign qualifications to
have the qualification evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the
State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the
post/s. If you have not been contacted within three months of the closing date
of this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Whilst applications are invited for the above disciplines, not all may be filled.
Applicants will be advised in due course, should a discipline which has been
applied for be excluded from this process. The Department is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer and to this end, has developed an
Employment Equity Plan pursuant to the Employment Equity Act. Preference
for the filling of these posts will be guided by the Departmental Equity Plan and
targets for the occupational level concerned.
CLOSING DATE : 20 April 2026
POST 11/168 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCE: DISTRICT HEALTH PROGRAMME:
CONDITIONAL GRANTS
Cluster: Strategic Health Programmes
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (An all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Matric Certificate; Bachelor of accounting Degree / Advanced Diploma or
equivalent (meaning people who did accounting a major subject) at NQF level
7 as recognized by SAQA. 3-5 years middle management experience in
financial accounting or auditing environment. Driver’s license NB: All shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit proof of work experience endorsed and
stamped by the employer/s prior to the date of the interview. Knowledge, Skills,
Training And Competence Required: Knowledge: South African Constitution
Bill of Rights, Human Rights Act, Labor Relations Act, Skills Development Act,
155
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Employment Equity Act,
Promotion of Access of Information Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice
Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and Practice Notes,
Grant Management Framework. Skills: Human Resource Management,
Financial Management, Risk Management, Conflict management, Project
Management, Information Management, Organizational, Influencing,
Analytical, Motivational, Presentation, Computer literacy e.g. MS Office suite,
Relationship management, Language, Listening, Interpersonal relations,
Research, Time management, Planning, Negotiation, Communication written
and oral, Report writing, Supervisory, Problem solving, Change management.,
Decision making.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Job Purpose Ensure the accurate analysis of
expenditure trends to ascertain the extent to which budgetary allocations are
in line with envisaged output performance priorities and facilitate payments and
journals for the component. Oversee the development of Performance Based
Budgeting Structures and management accounting systems and processes
that are in line with, and in support of the Annual Performance Plan,
Departmental Strategic Plan and the Service Deliver Plan. Facilitate the
preparation of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework budgets by
Institutions and other organizational units. Ensure the provision of guidance
and advice on managing budgets and the utilization of funds to Institution
budget committees. Administer accounting for all donor funds and conditional
grants to the Department and ensure that accurate and proper accounts are
maintained and oversee the process of capturing and maintaining budgetary
information on the BAS System by Institutions and other organizational units.
Ensure the effective and efficient utilization of resources through cash flow and
audit process, including the development of staff. cash flow meetings and on
audit queries. Which is part of the responsibilities for this post.
ENQUIRIES : MR J Mndebele Tel No: 033-395 3274
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants can visit the following website at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs for full posts details.“ Applicants are
encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment system at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs” “Applicants may also visit any one of our
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff will
assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can
find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” NB: //Applications for these posts can be
dropped off at your nearest Health Facility. All Applications Should Be
Forwarded To: The Chief Director: Human Resource Management Services
Kzn Department Of Health Private Bag X9051 Pietermaritzburg 3200 OR Hand
Deliver to: 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia Building, REGISTRY, Minus 1:1
North Tower (Attention: Miss N. S. Buthelezi)
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed Application for
Employment form (Z83) which must be originally signed, initialed and dated.
Applications received on the incorrect Z83 will not be considered. All required
information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or disclose all
information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The Z83 should be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV (with detailed experience). Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply for the post. Only shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview following communication from Human Resources. The appointments
are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State Security Agency
(SSA) to the following checks (security clearance (vetting), criminal clearance,
credit records, citizenship), verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA,
verification of previous experience from Employers and verification from the
Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). Foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by SAQA. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have all foreign qualifications evaluated by SAQA.
Applicants are to provide proof when they have been shortlisted for interviews.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants: Please ensure
that you submit your application before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. If you apply for more than 1 post, submit separate
applications for each post that you apply for quoting the relevant reference
156
number. Should you not be contacted within 3 months of the closing date of
the advertisement, please consider your application to be unsuccessful. NB:
Please note that the Selection Committee reserve the right to assign you to
any location based on service delivery needs.
CLOSING DATE : 17 April 2026
157
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 15 April 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the Correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/169 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: GENERAL SURGERY REF NO:
MPDoH/Mar/26/1250
SALARY R1 322 352 - R1 647 630 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant experience
after registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign
158
qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required:
Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and
teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical
knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to
work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication,
leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients
independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities
within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Assist with clinical audits
actively participate in continuous professional development. Provide support to
hospital management towards an efficient standard of patient care and
services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 11/170 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY-MATERNITY) (AREA) (PN-
B4) REF NO: MPDoH/Mar/26/1251
SALARY : R755 355 - R863 667 per .annum
CENTRE : Tonga Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice R425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026). A minimum of ten (10) years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least six (6) years
referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in the specific
specialty after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in the relevant
specialty. At least three (3) of the period referred to above must be appropriate
/ recognisable experience at management level. A Diploma / Degree in Nursing
Administration and Management will be an added advantage.
Knowledge/skills: Basic computer literacy, strong Leadership, Good
communication and Sound Interpersonal skills. Ability to work under pressure,
manage own time, function as an effective leader of the nursing team.
Implement and manage change. Willingness to work shifts and standby in
accordance with the requirements of the unit and nursing services. Report
writing skills.
DUTIES : Delegate, Supervise and coordinate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through adequate quality nursing care. Initiate and participate in
health promotion to ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care. Develop/establish and maintain
constructive work relationships with nursing and other stakeholders.
Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing
guidelines, practices, standards, policies, PMDS, procedures, Contingency
and Strategic Plans. Monitor and ensure proper utilization of human, financial
and physical resources. Quality management including infection control,
information management and clinical audits. Participating in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures. Manage human resources. Monitor and ensure proper utilization
of financial and physical resources. Implement all relevant prescripts. Manage
and monitor proper utilization of human financial and material resources.
Manage the budget according to PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
159
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 11/171 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN GRADE A REF. NO:
MPDoH/Mar/26/1252
(Re-Advertisement)
SALARY : R551 493 – R631 056 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree in Electrical / Electronic /
Mechanical / Clinical Engineering as recognized by (SAQA). A minimum of six
(6) years’ experience post qualification as Electrical / Electronic / Mechanical /
Clinical Engineering Technician. Valid driver’s licence. Must be computer
literate (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power point). Good verbal and written
communication skills, and interpersonal sound skills. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Responsibilities include but not limited to: Ensuring that Dental equipment
installed and used meet all applicable safety standards. Develop, monitor and
implement maintenance plans for dental equipment in various health
institutions and ensure that the equipment is well maintained and functions
properly. Ensure that applicable Quality assurance programme and Quality
Control (QC) tests are performed at the prescribed frequencies for Dental X-
Rays. Strong understanding of electronics, mechanics, and pneumatics as
work includes the diagnosing mechanical, electrical, or hydraulic faults and
fixing them. Perform all delegated departmental tasks with limited supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103
/ Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339,
Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT
related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 11/172 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL FEMALE MEDICAL REF
NO: MPDoH/Mar/26/1253
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2026). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. . Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes and other relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations and Labour Relations Act etc.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
Professional / legal framework. Manage effectively the supervision and
utilization of resources. Provision of effective support to nursing services.
Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-development. Display
a concern for patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment
and care and ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele and
patient centered Nursing care. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing
team in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 11/173 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ORTHOPAEDIC REF. NO:
MPDoH/Mar/26/1254
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
160
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Orthopaedic (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Orthopaedic Nursing
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Orthopaedic Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Able to plan and organize
your own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care.
Participate in staff development and performance management. Report patient
safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively,
co-operatively amicably with people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 11/174 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF.
NO: MPDoH/Jan/26/1255
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Mapulaneng Hospital (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing)
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently
and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem
solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE GOVERNANCE, HUMAN SETTLEMENTS & TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS.
The Mpumalanga Department of Co-Operative Governance, Human Settlements & Traditional Affairs is an
Department that provides equal opportunities and the Department’s intention is to promote equity
through the filling of these posts.
161
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be posted to: The Director: Human Resource Management,
Department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional
Affairs, Private Bag X 11328, Mbombela 1200.
FOR ATTENTION : The Director: HRM & D or Email to: Coghstarecruitment@mpg.gov.za Hand
delivered to: Rhino Building extension 2 No.7 Government Boulevard,
Riverside Park, Mbombela 1200.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on a prescribed New Z83 application form fully
completed, obtainable from any Public Service department. Applications must
be accompanied by a recently updated comprehensive CV. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their ID document, a
valid driver’s license (if specified as a job requirement), as well as the relevant
highest educational qualifications, on or before the day of the interview.
Applicants are discouraged from sending application through registered mail
because the Department will not be responsible for non-collection of these
applications. No late applications will be accepted. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to personal suitability checks on criminal records, citizenship
verification, financial records, employment references and qualification
verification. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. It is the
Applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Authority (SAQA). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement with the Department. The Department of Co-operative
Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer and preference will be given to the
suitable qualified candidates from designated groups in terms of Employment
Equity Act, 1998. The Department reserves the right not to make
appointment(s) to these positions.
OTHER POST
POST 11/175 : CANDIDATE ELECTRICAL ENGINEER REF NO: COGHSTA/2026/01
(This position is re-advertised)
SALARY : R761 157.per annum (OSD All-Inclusive Package)
CENTRE : Head Office (Mbombela)
REQUIRMENTS : A Senior Certificate and a Bachelor’s degree in Engineering (BEng/BSc Eng)
in Electrical Engineering or a relevant qualification recognised by the
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA). Compulsory registration with the
ECSA as a Candidate Engineer. Experience in the Municipal electrical
infrastructure planning, development, or maintenance, including the
implementation of grant projects. Experience with alternative energy or
renewable energy will be an added advantage. A valid driver’s License. Sound
knowledge of relevant legislation and legal compliance. Skills in Planning,
Organising, Project Management, Engineering design and analysis.
Knowledge of infrastructure development and programme management.
Strong communication skills (both verbal and written), Proficiency in Computer
Literacy and Inter-Governmental collaboration Skills And Competencies:
Planning, Organising, Project Co-ordination and Management, Technical
problem solving and Innovation, Computer-aided engineering applications,
Technical report writing, Teamwork and collaboration, Decision making,
Analytical skills, Self-Management, Customer focus, Responsiveness and
Communication (Verbal and Written), Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : support in the planning, designing, implementation and maintenance of
electrical infrastructure projects. Conduct technical site assessment to inform
project designs, design new systems to address practical engineering
challenges and improve efficiency and enhance safety planning, designing,
operation and maintenance of engineering projects, develop cost-effective
solutions and engineering plans that comply with standards and project
requirements, evaluate existing technical manuals, business plans, procedures
and standard drawings to incorporate new technologies, The development and
implementation of energy plans, develop and evaluate bids. Specifications,
monitor and support project and programmes, expenditure and service
162
delivery, report on service delivery, assist in training and development of junior
technical staff. Supervise engineering work, administer performance and
development plans. Manage resources and facilitate budget planning,
Procurement and personnel administration, conduct research to stay updated
on new technologies and procedures. liaise with relevant bodies / councils on
engineering related matters and follow approved development programmes for
the registration process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr PP Mokwena, Tel. No: 013 766 6225 and Ms. NI Mashego, Tel. Number:
013 766 6543
163
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department.
CLOSING DATE : 15 April 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83
obtainable from any Public Service Department or any Public Service
Administration website. The fully completed and signed Z83 should be
accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae, indicating
positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only short-listed
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their qualifications and
relevant documents on or before the day of the interview proceedings following
communication from the Human Resource Management Recruitment and
Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or information will
result in your application not being considered. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representavity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, qualification
verification and employment verification). All shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to make any
appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be expected
to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. The request for certified documents
will be limited to shortlisted candidates. The Human Resource Administration
of the Department will inform shortlisted candidate for a post to submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview. Should an applicant wish to
apply for more than one post, separate applications must be submitted for all
posts
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 11/176 : DIRECTOR: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AND FORENSIC
PATHOLOGY SERVICES, PROVINCIAL OFFICE, KIMBERLEY REF NO
NCDOH 58/2026 (1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714.per annum (Level 13) (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 7 in a relevant field (e.g, Health Sciences, Management). 5 (five)
years’ experience in Middle Management or Senior Management Level in the
Public Service A valid driver’s licence. SMS pre-entry certificate is required for
appointment finalization. Competencies Advanced Emergency Care practices,
Sound knowledge of legislation and procedures pertaining to EMS, PPTS ,DM
and Forensic Medical Services, In-depth knowledge of the objectives of the
Department and the Province, Good strategic planning qualities, Good
financial management skills. Job Purpose: To lead the Provincial emergency
medical service (EMS), non-emergency planned patient transport service
(NEPTS), disaster management planning and Forensic Medical Services. Lead
the ambulance service transformation and modernisation strategy
DUTIES : Management and co-ordination of all planning, implementation, monitoring,
evaluation and logistics for Emergency and Forensic Medical Services in the
Province. Provide high-level operational management and strategic leadership
in the directorate. Provide EMS and Ambulance Operations Management
Services and Forensic Medical Services. Monitor and improve response times
and incidents. Ensure an effective and efficient planed patient transport
services. The provision of EMS disaster management and communication.
164
Ensure a Disaster Management ready state for the department and an effective
communication system. Manage the provision of EMS College and Training.
Ensure provision of quality training and development for all Emergency Medical
Service Personnel and Forensic Medical Services. Coordinate and oversee the
provision of Forensic Pathology Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LV Moleleki, Tel No: (053) 8302103
APPLICATIONS : Please note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building ,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed at
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. Applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/177 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS, REF NO:
NCDOH 59/2026
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (Level 11) (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year, NQF 6 qualification in Social Work/Social Science
or Psychology or Occupational Health and Safety Management. Five years’
working experience in an EHW environment in the public sector of which three
years must be at supervisory level. Registration with a Professional Body.
Ability to manage highly confidential information. Relevant Employee Health
and Wellness programme training. Knowledge of Employee Assistance
Programmes. Knowledge of Public Finance Prescripts and policies.
Experience in stakeholder engagement. Ability to provide vision and setting
direction for the unit and facilitating internally driven and externally suggested
pro-active programmes. Planning and execution skills. Coordination and
facilitation
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for developing and facilitating
approval of the Wellness Operational Plan for the financial year, coordinating
awareness sessions, marketing and communication campaigns on the
Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) services from the EAP service
provider to encourage the optimum utilisation of EAP services; facilitating
managerial consultancy and supervisory engagement on employees’ matters;
managing critical incidences of trauma to troubled employees for further
referral; coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Departmental
Sports and Recreation Programme; conducting trend analysis on the
implementation of the external EAP services and in-house EAP interventions
to determine the effectiveness of the services; conducting exit interviews with
leaving officials from the department and compiling a report; conducting project
planning meeting, quality check of the submission and project plan on all EHW
interventions and Health Calendar Event; developing and facilitating approval
of the SHERQ Operational Plan for the financial year; facilitating the
presentation of the annual implementation plan to the external service provider
for the promotion of Occupational Diseases and Health Education
Programmes; conduct trend analysis on the implementation of Injury-on-Duty
and First Aid based on the OHS prescripts in the department and compile a
report on the findings; coordinate and compile the report on the DPSA Systems
Monitoring Tool (SMT) by liaising with relevant units within the department;
facilitate appointments of OHS representatives to monitor health and safety in
the department; coordinating SHERQ committee meetings; managing and
facilitating the provision of employee wellness and implementation of
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) programmes; developing and
facilitating approval of the Health and Productivity Management Operational
Plan for the financial year; coordinating the implementation of the Healthy
Lifestyle Programme to address diseases and psycho-somatic challenges
conducting planning meetings, quality checking submissions and project plan
on Health and Productivity Management programme and Health Calendar to
present the proposal to the approving authority; monitoring the implementation
of the Occupational Health Education and Promotion in line with the Employee
Needs Survey Report; analysing the trend of sick leave and ill health, including
incapacity leave to detect the level of abuse of sick leave by staff members to
determine if there are possible wellness interventions required; developing and
facilitating approval of the HIV & AIDS, STIs and TB Operational Plan for the
financial year; conducting trend analysis on the HIV and AIDS Testing and TB
165
Mainstreaming Framework; assessing cases referred; developing treatment
plan; providing services of the needs identified; rendering critical incidences of
trauma to troubled employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LC Fritz Tel (053) 830 0601
APPLICATIONS : lease note applications can be hand delivered to the James Exum Building,
Room 29, couriered via postal services to 144 Du Toitspan Road, James Exum
Building, Kimberley Hospital Complex, Kimberley, 8301 or emailed to
nchealthhr@ncpg.gov.za. All applicants must complete an application register
when an application is hand delivered
POST 11/178 : HOUSE MOTHER/HOUSE FATHER REF NO: NCDOH 60/2026 (X 1 POST)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : (Henrietta Stockdale Nursing College: Student Residence)
REQUIREMENTS : A Matric/ Senior National Certificate and Knowledge in a health, social, and/or
home-based care. Having 1-2 years’ experience in a similar position would be
an added advantage. Must be willing to work long hours, including evenings,
weekends, and potential overnight on-call responsibilities Competency Profile:
Previous experience in caregiving, counselling, or similar residential settings is
DUTIES : Oversee all cleaning services of the student residences Maintenance:
Conducting regular room inspections and reporting maintenance issues to the
facility manager. Managing attendance (roll call), recording student movement,
handling laundry services. Act as a first-aid liaison and liaise with nurses or
doctors for an appointment. Providing mentorship, guidance, and support for
students. Mediating disputes between students and guiding them on
interpersonal skills. Monitoring students' behaviour, enforcing house rules, and
supervising study periods (prep) and bedtimes. Supervise staff
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries: Dr OR Appolus Tel No: 053 831 3707
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be e-mailed to info.hsnc@gmail.com or hand-delivered front
reception of Henrietta Stockdale Nursing College at Corner Memorial Road and
Du Toitspan, Belgravia Kimberley. Applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand-delivered.
166
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health and Wellness, it is our intention with
this advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair
treatment in employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, hall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the Post 10/546: Administration
Clerk: Registry (X2 Posts), Salary R228 321 per annum Centre: Groote Schuur
Hospital, Observatory, advertised in the Public Service Vacancy 10 dated 13
March 2026, with reference number: 10/546. Post has been cancelled.
OTHER POSTS
POST 11/179 : DENTAL SPECIALIST GRADE 2 TO 3 (DENTAL PROSTHETICS SERVICES)
(2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchell’s Plain
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics.
Experience: Grade 2: Minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Dental
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Dental
Specialist in Prosthodontics. Grade 3: Minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Dental Specialist in Prosthodontics. Inherent requirements of
the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver's licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Competencies (knowledge/skills) Ability to work independently and in a multi-
disciplinary team. Good computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook).
Appropriate experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
as a Dental Specialist in the speciality Prosthodontics.
DUTIES : key result areas/outputs): Implementation, monitoring and evaluation of dental
services on the Oral Health Teaching platform. Supervision and leadership role
with regards to teaching, training and education of post-graduate and under-
graduate students. Performing administrative activities relating to the position.
Operational and clinical research. Render specialist dental services at the Oral
Health Teaching platform. Provide leadership and management within the Oral
Health Teaching platform.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Khan, tel. no. (021) 937-3006
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/180 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (SUB-SPECIALITY) PAEDIATRIC HAEMATOLOGY
ONCOLOGY
(24 Month Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Red Cross war Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
167
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in the Speciality: Paediatrics Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Specialist in Paediatrics. Inherent
requirements of the job: FCPaed and MMed (Paed) is a requirement, as well
as registration/ registrability as a specialist with the HPCSA Registrars will be
required to register as post graduate students with the University of Cape Town
as applicable according to the requirements for the discipline in the yearbook
and guidelines. Must provide after-hours emergency services and participate
in commuted overtime at 16 hours per week within the Department of
Paediatrics and Child Health Platform. All applicants must be South African
citizens or permanent residents. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Experience
in and/or demonstrated interest in working with children and their caregivers.
Excellent interpersonal and communication skills (both written and oral).
Demonstrated understanding of being mindful of cultural differences and
adapting communication and administration methods to respect diverse
patients. Strong attention to detail and ability to work both independently and
collaboratively within a team. Demonstrated commitment to ethical conduct,
patient safety, and maintaining confidentiality. Experience in general
paediatrics at a post graduate level. Direct experience in working with children
living with Autism Spectrum Disorder, Cerebral Palsy and other developmental
conditions. Ability and willingness to supervise medical students and rotating
registrars.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Clinical Service Delivery: Comprehensive Paediatric
Haematology/Oncology and General Paediatric Clinical Care and Service
Delivery in The Western Cape. Care Of Paediatric Haematology/Oncology
Inpatients and Outpatients Under the Direction of Sub-Specialist Supervisors.
After-Hours Duties on The Senior Registrar Roster in the Department of
Paediatrics & Child Health (Uct); And Responsible to the Director of the
Registrar Programme. Supervision: Supervision Of Junior Medical Staff - With
Respect to Patient Care and Clinical Service-Ensuring Safe and High Standard
of Clinical Care. Co-Ordination Of the Junior Medical Team, Nurses and Allied
Health Care Team to Ensure Seamless Provision of Service. Teaching:
Contribute To and Facilitate Learning of Undergraduate Students and
Paediatric Registrars Attached to the Clinic and Ward. Learning: Rotation
Through Areas of Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital’s Paediatric
Haematology/Oncology Service in Order To Acquire Training in Paediatric
Haematology/Oncology Including Completing the Required Training Logbook
and Successfully Passing the College of Medicine of South Africa Certificate
Examination to Enable Certification as A Paediatric Oncologist with The Hpcsa.
Attendance And Presentation at Academic Departmental Meetings and Journal
Clubs. Research: Involvement With Existing Research Projects, Clinical
Reviews, Audits and Clinical Trials. The Post Holder Is Expected to Conduct A
Research Project Towards Producing a Master’s (Mphil) Thesis Through Uct
and Will Require Proof of Research in Order to Enter the Cmsa Certificate
Exam. Management And Administration: Administration and management in
the paediatric haematology/oncology unit including ensuring correct patient
data and statistics. Efficient management of clinical notes, including generating
letters, providing feedback to referring doctors, contributing to databases, and
using designated ICD-10 codes.
ENQUIRIES : Prof A Davidson, tel. no (021) 658-5570 or email: alan.davidson@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Employees in
service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will
be required to resign after completion of their Registrarship, should they not be
successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be
identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University/ University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines.
Please ensure that you attach an updated CV. Red Cross War Memorial
Childrens Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its
168
training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plain District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. “Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration Senior Registrars will
function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Consideration
will be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages
to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be on contract.
Candidates may be subjected to a competency test. As directed by the
Department of Public Service and Administration, applicants must note that
further checks will be conducted once they are shortlisted and that their
appointment is subject to positive outcomes on these checks, which include
security clearance, qualification verification, criminal records and previous
employment. It will be expected of shortlisted candidates to be: available at the
venue on the time and date as determined by the Department and bring along
recently (not older than 6 months) certified copies of your Identity Document
(ID), driver’s license (if applicable for the post), qualification and/or proof of
registration at relevant statutory body. Failure to adhere to the aforementioned
may lead to his/her application being disqualified and not further considered.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/181 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY PHYSICIAN)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 3: R1 773 222 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Grabouw Community Health Centre, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Family Medicine.
Experience: Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as
a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Family Medicine. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (code B/EB/C1) driver’s
license. Compulsory Commuted Overtime (COT) duties. Ability and willingness
to do outreach services to clinics throughout the Theewaterskloof Sub-district.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of general medical and
surgical conditions at district hospital and Primary Health Care level and
knowledge applicable to the South African TB and HIV care guidelines.
Comprehensive evidence-based, direct patient-centered. Clinical service
provision in the sub-district Health Service. Computer literacy (MS Excel, Word,
Outlook etc.) and good interpersonal, organizational and teamwork skills.
Competent in performing district level procedures including performance of
caesarian sections, administration of spinal and general anesthesia,
management of chronic conditions and HIV/TB care, maternal and child health
as well as emergency medical care including adult and neonatal resuscitations.
Ability to guide health care colleagues in managing difficult district-level cases.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide quality care to patients in the
Theewaterskloof sub-district including Caledon Hospital and surrounding
clinics and healthcare facilities. Provide Outreach and Support service to PHC
facilities in the Theewaterskloof sub-district. Actively participate in skills
169
transfer, training, and academic opportunities relevant to the post. Active
involvement in the clinical governance of Theewaterskloof sub-district facilities
as required. Performing administrative duties. Supporting the Sub-district
management team, while maintaining professional ethical standards.
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Pillay, tel.no (028) 212-1070
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post” Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
as Medical Specialist in Family Medicine with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for a change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/182 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 2: PSYCHIATRY (PSYCHIATRIC AND
MEDICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration
with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of
5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a
foreign-qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willing and able to work shifts. Willing and able to work
with patients with infectious diseases. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness and ability to travel. Available and willing to participate in after-hours
duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical, leadership, administrative,
teaching, and mentoring skills. Appropriate experience in Psychiatry. Excellent
clinical consultation, management and procedural skills. Computer literacy in
MS Office. Good professional attitude. Excellent communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Coordination and provision of specialist psychiatric
care to in- and outpatients at Stikland Hospital and outreach support in the
respective sub-structures as designated. Management of and compliance with
designated and relevant clinical governance, corporate governance and
administrative requirements on hospital level Participation in clinical
governance of the mental health service ecosystem as designated and
appropriate. Leadership of an integrated multidisciplinary clinical team. Clinical
supervision and training of registrars and junior staff. Creativity to develop new
ideas in conjunction with ecosystem role-players which has the potential to
result in positive changes to existing processes. Academic teaching, training
and research (NB: The post is a joint appointment with the Department of
Psychiatry; University of Stellenbosch). Complete the required CPD activities
to maintain registration with the HPCSA. Complete and submit required
medical reports and documentation for legal and administrative purposes.
Uphold the reputation and integrity of the medical profession.
ENQUIRIES : Prof L Koen, tel. no. (021) 940 8718 or email: liezle.koen@westercape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
170
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/193 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (CARDIOLOGY)
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Clinical Skills required of a Medical Specialist Physician
(e.g. Assessment, diagnosis and treatment in inpatient, outpatient, and
emergency contexts). Knowledge appropriate for approach to investigations of
common cardiovascular disorders. Communication including report
generation, letter writing, consultation. Effective and efficient administration.
Facilitation of management system.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): -Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Governance and
Administration. Teaching and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff. Research for
fulfilment of the MPhil Degree.
ENQUIRIES : Prof M Ntsekhe, tel. no. (021) 404-6085 or email: mpiko.ntsekhe@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. Appointment as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract
period of 3 years. Senior Registrars will function across health facilities, as per
an agreed programme. Consideration will be given to existing employees who
are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position,
as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment
as Senior Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to
continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required to
resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for
advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of Health is
guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with disability are
encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be appreciated.
Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be identified as part
of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative Specialist cadre
in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to SA
citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior Registrars
will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University/
University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
171
POST 11/184 : SENIOR REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (CLINICAL HAEMATOLOGY)
(2 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 341 855 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine or
Hematopathology. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine or Hematopathology
(Independent Practice). Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Commuted overtime is compulsory. Willingness to work after
hours. The position will be full- time (40 hours per week). Registration with
Stellenbosch University as a postgraduate student (MPhil Haematology).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Able to cope in
a busy clinical environment. Experience in Haematology. Previous research
experience. Previous attendance of Haematology workshops or conferences.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Successful completion of the Cert Clinical
Haematology (Phys/Path) (SA) which includes all the logbook requirements of
the College of Medicine, including a mandatory laboratory training period for
physician candidates. Participate fully in clinical and academic activities of the
division. Maintain accurate medical and chemotherapy records. Conduct
research in Haematology that is relevant to the South African context with
successful completion of the MPhil (Haematology).
ENQUIRIES : Dr F Fazel, tel. no. (021) 938- 5888/9486 or email: fbfazel@sun.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Senior Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 2 years. It may
become necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during
their period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to
any decision being implemented. Senior Registrars will function across health
facilities, as per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a
student be discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Senior Registrar
also discontinues. Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
personnel. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment
as Senior Registrar will be on contract. Employees in service who opt to
continue with their pension benefits as Senior Registrar, will be required to
resign after completion of their senior registrar contract should they not be
successful for advertised Medical Sub-Specialist positions. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Senior Registrar posts within the Department will be
identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Senior
Registrars will be required to register as postgraduate students with
Stellenbosch University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration as
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine or Hematopathology with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).”
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/185 : PRIMARY HEALTH CARE MANAGER (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-Structure office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 4-year Health related National
Diploma/Degree or equivalent registrable with a South African Statutory Health
172
Professions Council or South African Nursing Council. Experience:
Appropriate/recognizable experience in District Health
Systems/Management/Services. Appropriate experience in PHC
Management. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to attend to community needs after-hours. Willingness to
travel within the Southern Western sub-structure geographical area also within
the Western Province and Nationally as required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication, interpersonal, leadership
and conflict resolution skills. Basic knowledge and experience in office
administration, financial and procurement administration and computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Overall management (Operational and Strategic) of
the PHC component of the Sub-district (CHC’s, CDCs). Manage, co-ordinate,
plan, monitor and evaluate facility-based programmes as well as integration of
these with Community Based Services in the Sub-district. Management of the
critical support services. Manage Human Resource, Skills Development,
Labour Relations, Financial and budget management. Liaise and co-operate
with multi-sectoral team, the community and other stakeholders. Ensure that
prescribed policies and procedures are implemented and adhered to, to ensure
integrated and quality services are rendered.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Z Brickles, tel. no. (021) 202-0902
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/186 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
(1-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required n South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Commuted overtime
is compulsory. Emergency and after-hours call cover. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Experience in labour ward management, including
operative and assisted deliveries. Experience in essential gynaecological
emergency care. Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written). Ability
to work in integrated multi-disciplinary teams across platforms Computer
literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Innovation and Research. Teaching. Leadership.
Clinical Service Provision: Patient Care: in and after hours provision of care.
Clinical Governance and Administration.
173
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Osman or Dr L Schoeman, Tel. No. (021) 404-6020 or email:
ayesha.osman@uct.ac.za/ leanne.schoeman@uct.ac.za or
marilyn.koks@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Groote Schuur
Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training
platform. Accordingly, all medical officer appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed
registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of
the interview. This concession is only applicable on health professionals who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/187 : MEDICAL OFFICER: GRADE 1 TO 3 (EMERGENCY MEDICINE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Practitioner.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as a Medical Practitioner with the
HPCSA in respect of SA qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified
employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience after registration as a
Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A
minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s license; willingness and ability to travel. Full commuted
overtime is mandatory. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to render high
quality Emergency Medicine service and appropriate experience in Emergency
Medicine at District level. Strong ethical principles, relevant clinical &
counselling skills, computer literacy, interpersonal skills, conflict resolution
skills and teaching & training skills at undergraduate and medical intern level.
Excellent clinical expertise and clinical governance. Team ethos, good
leadership, communication, interpersonal, analytical and problem-solving
skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Clinical service delivery in Emergency Medicine,
performed in all areas of the hospital, including wards, outpatients, theatre and
the EC, with relevant procedural and surgical interventions. Clinical and
administrative governance with effective self-organization, stewardship of
scarce resources, participation in clinical reviews, with quality improvement,
accurate medical record keeping and compliance with human resources and
other policies. Teaching, training & research including supervision of
174
undergraduate students, interns and junior doctors as well as participation in
the hospital academic program. Systems management and domain specific
outputs (Metro East Ecosystem) - rendering of high-quality care in all aspects
of Emergency Medicine within the district level package of care, in a
professional & collegial manner, aligned with the requirements & outputs of
Emergency Medicine in the Metro East ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Abramsel, tel. no. (021) 918-1911
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026 17:00 PM
POST 11/188 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGER (EXPENDITURE
ADMINISTRATION)
Directorate Management Accounting: Sub-directorate: Financial Planning and
Expenditure Administration
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (stationed at Bellville Health Park)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree in Financial Management, Accounting, Public Finance or Economics.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a financial environment at least 3-5
years of experience at an Assistant Director level. Appropriate experience in
data analysis and administration. Appropriate experience using tools for report
generation (MS Excel, PowerBI, SQL and other relevant softwares). Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to travel. Willingness to work after hours.
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
function in a team. Ability to interact with people at all levels of society. Ability
to analyze numbers and read reports. Computer literacy Advanced Excel skills.
Advanced computer literacy, with strong proficiency in MS Excel and MS Word,
including data analysis and reporting. Knowledge of PowerBI and SQL would
be an advantage. Proven proficiency in budgeting processes and the
application of management accounting tools and techniques. Thorough
knowledge of In-Year Monitoring (IYM) processes and Annual Financial
Statements (AFS) preparation and reporting. Strong interpersonal and
communication skills, with the ability to engage effectively with stakeholders at
all levels of authority. Leadership and stakeholder management Demonstrated
conflict resolution, problem-solving, and lateral thinking abilities. Ability to work
independently, exercise sound judgement, and function effectively under
pressure and tight deadlines, including working overtime and travelling when
required. Proven ability to manage and supervise staff, including performance
management, discipline, mentoring, and development. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA) and Treasury Regulations. Treasury Regulations and
budgeting processes. Financial reporting systems (BAS / PERSAL).
Accounting principles and financial management practices.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage and coordinate an effective and efficient
departmental budget process. Ensure effective monitoring of expenditure
through the In-Year Monitoring (IYM) process and detailed tracking in terms of
the Standard Chart of Accounts (SCOA). Manage and oversee the preparation
of Interim and Annual Financial Statements, ensuring accuracy, compliance,
and timeliness. Compile monthly expenditure projections, provide analytical
reporting to management. Compile, analyse, and verify budget data captured
on accounting systems (e.g. BAS). Extract, analyse, and interpret financial
information and reports from systems such as BAS and Vulindlela to support
decision-making. Develop advanced Excel spreadsheets, dashboards, and
pivot tables for financial analysis and reporting. Perform budget management,
analysis, and reporting in line with recognised management accounting
175
principles and practices. Supervise and manage subordinate staff, including
performance management, discipline, training, and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D Mogane, tel. no. (021) 815-8786
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/189 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual’s personal needs).
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification
(National Diploma/B-Degree in Supply Chain
Management/Procurement/Law/Public Management/Finance/Auditing/Project
Management/Commercial field) or equivalent. Experience: Appropriate
experience and a proven track record in Managing Tenders, Demand
Management and Contract Administration within a Supply Chain Management
environment. Appropriate experience at a supervisory or managerial level.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of the relevant financial and SCM
prescripts. Knowledge of departmental policies and procedures. Computer
literacy, with proficiency in MS Excel, report writing, drafting of word documents
and PowerPoint presentations. Strategic and leadership skills. Good
communication and presentation skills. Strong analytical and problem-solving
ability. Ability to function in a high-pressure environment and meet strict
deadlines. Proven leadership and people-management ability. Knowledge of
Contract Management and legal aspects of it. Good programme and project
management skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide strategic direction for the Sub-Directorate
transversal needs in terms of demand, acquisition and contract management.
Responsible for providing sound and effective advice on contract
administration services. Manage and monitor contracts to ensure the quality of
services is maintained for the duration of the contract. Manage and monitor
end to end tender processes within the Sub-Directorate. Investigate complaints
from suppliers and give feedback to suppliers and institutions. Provide
departmental services to the bid committee and decision-making authorities.
Ensure compliance management that is in line with procurement and supply
chain management prescripts. Provide support and coordinate training to
institutions on all procurement related challenges. Human Resource
Management of Sub-directorate’s staff. Management and maintain the budget
of the Sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mili, tel. no. (021) 834-9050, or email: Ayanda.Mili@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/190 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs )
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Bachelor’s Degree in Finance, Accounting, Public Financial Management,
Commerce or Supply Chain Management. Experience: Appropriate experience
in Financial Management and Supply Chain Management, of which a minimum
of three (3-5) years must be at a supervisory or managerial level. Appropriate
financial management and expenditure control in terms of the PFMA and
Treasury Instructions. Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management,
including demand, acquisition, contract management, asset management and
stock management. Appropriate experience in End-to-end contract
management, including drafting, monitoring, performance management and
compliance. Appropriate experience in Patient administration, revenue
176
management and medical records. Appropriate experience in Information
management and the use of health information systems for reporting and
decision-making. Appropriate supervisory and managerial experience with
responsibility for multi-disciplinary teams. Appropriate experience in
implementation and monitoring of financial systems, internal controls and
compliance frameworks. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrated knowledge
and competence in: Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations
and financial prescripts. Supply Chain Management prescripts and governance
requirements. UPFS and patient administration or billing systems. BAS and
LOGIS or equivalent financial and SCM systems. Development, monitoring and
analysis of institutional budgets and FBUs. Revenue generation and
management of irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Information
management, statutory reporting and audit requirements. Additional skills
required: Strong analytical and problem-solving ability. Proven leadership and
people-management ability Clear and confident written and verbal
communication. Ability to function in a high-pressure environment and meet
strict deadlines. Computer literacy in MS Office applications.
DUTIES : key result areas/outputs): Overall leadership and management of the Finance
Component. Management of Supply Chain Management, including demand,
acquisition, contract and asset management. Budget planning, allocation,
monitoring and expenditure control. Implementation and support of Functional
Business Units (FBUs). Oversight of patient administration, billing, revenue
management and medical records governance. Institutional information
management, data quality and statutory reporting. Ensuring compliance with
PFMA, Treasury Instructions and all applicable prescripts. Performance
management, development and discipline of staff within the Finance
Component. Serving as a member of the hospital management team and
advising management on all finance and SCM matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Goliath, tel. no. (021) 826-5805
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/191 : FACILITY MANAGER PHC
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Retreat Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three year Diploma/ Degree in
a health related or managerial field. Experience: Appropriate experience in a
managerial position in an NGO, private organisation or the state sector.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Proven leadership abilities. Good interpersonal and people
management skills. Knowledge of Public Sector legislation. Computer literacy.
Health sector experience.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs: General and operational management of a
Community Health Centre. Operational planning and implementation of
operational plans related to Package of services. Responsible for external
governance including collaboration with other sectors (Whole of Society
Approach). Sound financial, Supply Chain Management, People Management
and Facilities Management. Quality Management. Health Strategy & Support
in Information, Pharmacy and Laboratory.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Appolis, Tel. No. (021) 2020-933
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/192 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: ICU)
SALARY : R755 355 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
177
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with SANC, in terms of R212 in Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Critical Care Nursing (Adult) OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing
(R174) or (R171) qualification that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Critical Care Nursing (Adult). Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC. At least 6 years
of the above period must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the post-basic qualification or a post-graduate diploma in the relevant
speciality. At least 3 years of the above period must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at nurse management level.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Quality Assurance, Human Resource,
Finance and Change Management. Decision making, problem solving and
interpersonal skills. Grievance procedures and disciplinary legislation.
Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Negotiation, facilitation and
communication skills. Infection Prevention and Control policies.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Co-ordinate, supervise and control nursing services
in the Critical Care Department. Ensure the provision of optimal, holistic,
specialised nursing care within set standards and a professional and legal
framework. Ensure that prescribed policies and procedures are adhered to.
Effectively manage the initiation and utilisation of human and material
resources. Ensure the control and execution of quality of care and financial
management. Co-ordinate the provision of effective training and research to
maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-development. Liaise
directly with the Nursing and Medical managers as well as the relevant
Departmental Heads (Ancillary and Support Services).
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sutcliffe, tel no. (021) 404-2092
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/193 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY AREAS: PAEDIATRICS)
SALARY : R755 355 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Critical
Care Nursing: Child or Child Nursing Science or Medical and Surgical Nursing
Science: Orthopaedic Nursing or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Oncology or a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Critical Care Nursing (Child) or Child
Nursing or Orthopaedic Nursing or Oncology Nursing. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in Nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post
graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. At least 3 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirement of the job: Will be required to perform
after-hour duties including weekends, and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Word, and Excel. Excellent
communication skills. Knowledge of quality assurance and National Core
Standards. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing
specialty. Nursing Management qualification / skills. Strong leadership and
good interpersonal communication skills. Good organisational skills and the
ability to function in a team and under pressure.
178
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): The candidate will be responsible for management
and co-ordination of clinical nursing care in the Paediatric Units. Effective
management and utilization of Human and Financial Resources to ensure
optimal clinical and operational function in the area. Manage training,
orientation, learning, professional growth & development, and participation in
research within the clinical environment. Support/ deputise for the Head of
Nursing and support the Nursing department and the institution.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel.no (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/194 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: NURSING (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY) (NIGHT
SHIFT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). Or A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate Diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 6 years of the above period must be appropriate/recognisable
experience in Psychiatric Nursing after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science OR a post graduate
Diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. At least 3
years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience at management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Must work
shifts (day and night) including weekends and public holidays for planned
periods. Valid (B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy skills. Basic financial and statistics management skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective management of the Psychiatric wards and
coordination of all activities and communication with the relevant supervisors
and stakeholders. Management and monitoring the effective utilisation of
human, financial and physical resources. Deliver a quality nursing care
throughout the hospital and provide on-going support to the nursing service.
Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing
guidelines, practices, standards and procedures incorporating the Ideal
Hospital Standards. Supervision of the implementation of effective processes
and practices with regards to all statistical information needed to render a
quality mental health service. Liaising with relevant stakeholders on night shift,
i.e. referring hospitals family members, security service and SAPS.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Fredericks, tel. no. (021) 940-4416
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/195 : EMS SUB-DISTRICT MANAGER GRADE 2 TO 4 (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 2: R562 119 per annum
Grade 3: R624 288 per annum
Grade 4: R690 465 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Cape Winelands (1 post)
West Coast District (1 post)
179
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 2: Successful completion of the
Emergency Care Technician Course (ECT) that allows registration with HPCSA
as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that allows
registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 4: Successful completion
of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with HPCSA as an Emergency
Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with a professional council: Grade 2:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an ECT.
Grade 3: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a
Paramedic. Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 2: Minimum of 3 years’ experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency
Care Technician (ECT). Grade 3: Minimum of 3 years’ experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Paramedic
(CCA or N.DIP). Grade 4: Minimum of 3 years’ experience after registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency Care
Practitioner (ECP). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code C1 driver’s
license. Valid professional driver’s permit (PrDP). Registration as an ECT,
Paramedic or ECP. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of
all levels of emergency care protocols. Good communication and interpersonal
skills and report-writing skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective management of emergency medical
services for the Sub-district. Effectively manage the Human Resource and
Labour Relations function of the District in relation to staff management.
Manage the budget and the facilitation of account payments for goods and
services in line with the financial prescripts. Maintain responsibility for the audit
compliance with regards to Financial Management and Supply Chain
Management matters. Ensure effective management of Emergency Fleet and
equipment. Ensure effective communication with regards to meetings,
workshops, debriefs, compiling stats and report writing and forging sustainable
relationships with external stakeholders. Effective support to District Manager
and act in management capacity when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Pedro, tel.no. (022) 433-8853 or Ms S Don tel.no. (022) 433-8853 (West
Coast), Mr I Naidoo, tel.no. (023) 346-6000 or Ms A Botha, tel.no. (023) 346-
6022 (Cape Winelands).
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/196 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME CO-ORDINATOR GRADE 1 (INFECTION
PREVENTION AND CONTROL)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, night duty and overtime, as
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations,
leadership and communication skills (verbal and written). Principles of
Management: leadership, supervisory, problem solving, conflict resolution,
interpersonal, and communication skills. Knowledge of Provincial infection
prevention and control measures and practices. Ability to analyze health
systems information, and skills and experience in the preparation of reports.
Project Management skills and Computer literacy. Ability to function
independently as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Develop and ensure implementation of clinical
practice guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s) in Infection
180
Prevention Control (IPC) for use by staff and participate in surveillance and
auditing. Management of risks as identified in terms of infection control and
participation in outbreak investigations to give relevant inputs and advice.
Ensure a well-functioning, multi-disciplinary infection control advisory
committee. Manage infection prevention and control in the Central Sterilisation
Services Department Provide guidance and training in Infection Prevention and
Control to staff. Participation in training and research programmes relevant to
the principles and management of infection prevention and control. Financial
Management control and ensure compliance pertaining to Medical Waste.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Basardien, tel. no. (021) 402-6224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/197 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING: GENERAL (SURGICAL
WARD/ORTHOPAEDIC WARD) (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work shifts (day and
night duty), public holidays, after-hours, and weekends. Relief the Assistant
Manager: Nursing when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
promote quality patient care through the setting, implementation, and
monitoring of standards. Ability to function independently as well as part of a
multi-disciplinary team in a pressured environment. Good organisational,
communication (verbal and written), interpersonal, leadership, problem-
solving and decision-making, conflict resolution and labour relations skills and
computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
Appropriate/recognisable experience in a hospital setting and knowledge and
insight of all relevant legislation and policies within the public sector.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Coordinate and supervise the provision of optimal,
holistic nursing care within set standards and within a professional and legal
framework. Effective and efficient management of Human, financial and
physical resources. Initiate, co-ordinate, implement and participate in training,
development and research within the General wards and the Nursing
Component. Deliver a support service to the Nursing Service and the
institution. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Linden-Mars, tel no. (021) 918-1224
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/198 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL)
(FEMALE/CHILDREN’S WARD)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree) in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: A
181
minimum of 7 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel. Willingness to perform after-hour and weekend standby duties for the
hospital. Willingness to relief the Deputy Manager Nursing and Operational
Managers. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and understanding of
Nursing legislation, related legal ethical nursing practices and framework, as
well as labour legislation and relevant public sector policies, guidelines and
protocols. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage the clinical services and rostering of staff.
Responsible for planning, managing, coordinating and maintaining an optimal
quality Nursing Service as an Operational Manager in a hospital setting.
Participative management and utilization of Human Resources, to fulfil
operational and developmental functions in the area. Manage and monitor the
Financial Resources, consumables and equipment of the clinical area. Initiate
and participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Deliver a support service to the Nursing Service Department and
the institution. Maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu, tel. no. (044) 604 - 6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/199 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL) (SURGERY)
SALARY : R549 192 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e degree/
diploma in Nursing) or equivalent that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and Midwife. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Experience: A minimum of of 7 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in Nursing after registration as Professional Nurse and Midwife with
the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability and
willingness to assist with shifts and after-hours hospital cover including
weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and overtime as the need arises.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function independently as well as
part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective communication, interpersonal,
leadership, decision-making and conflict resolution skills. Good organisational
skills and the ability to function under pressure. Basic computer literacy.
Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy related to nursing
within the public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the
setting, implementation and monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): The candidate will be responsible for planning,
managing, co-ordinating and maintaining an optimal quality Nursing Service as
an Operational Manager. Participative management and utilisation of Human
Resources to fulfil operational and developmental functions in the area.
Manage and monitor the Financial Resources of the clinical area. Initiate and
participate in training, development and research within the nursing
department. Deliver a support service to the Nursing Service and the institution.
To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel. no. (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
182
POST 11/200 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (SONOGRAPHER)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R491 256 per annum
Grade 2: R575 250 per annum
Grade 3: R676 716 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound / Radiographer. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
Ultrasound Radiography. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
HPCSA in Ultrasound Radiography in respect of RSA- qualified employees.
One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: Minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Grade 3: Minimum of 20 years’ relevant experience after registration with the
HPCSA in Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of RSA-qualified employees.
Minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in
Radiography (Ultrasound) in respect of foreign qualified employees. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to perform after hours and weekend duties.
A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Willingness to render service within the
Klipfontein / Mitchell’s Plain Sub-structure. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy in word processing, data management and analysis. Ability
to work independently and in a team with good interpersonal skills. Thorough
knowledge of ante-natal, ante-natal Doppler paediatric, gynaecology- and
abdominal-ultrasound studies. Completion of supplementary courses on
diagnostic ultrasound and knowledge and interest in teaching in Obstetrics and
Gynaecology at both undergraduate and post-graduate level.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide a comprehensive diagnostic ultrasound
service at an advanced level with the focus on Obstetrics and Gynaecology
(OSG) imaging in Mitchells Plain CHC/MOU. General care of patients as part
of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective administration within the ultrasound unit
regarding patient service. Appropriate referral as well as equipment
management. Maintain case records and statistics. Actively take part in CPD-
program, as a learner as well as In-service training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Samuels, tel. no. (021) 684-1400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/201 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER: GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (5 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Various Institutions
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
183
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment Treatment and
Care, accredited with SANC (R48) OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A Minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
periods referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the one-year post-basic qualification as
mentioned above. OR A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the
SANC in Primary Care Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s
license and willingness to travel. Willingness to work after hours. Will be
required to rotate within the facility and assist with other PHC clinics within the
Sub-structure when there is a need. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
NIMART training or experience. Knowledge and understanding of nursing
Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of the SANC of nursing Standard of
Practice and scope of practice. Computer literate in MS Office (Excel, Word
and Power point) and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Treatment of patients on Primary Health Care level
with regards to Curative Services, Communicable Diseases, Mental Health and
Chronic Diseases within the scope of practice. Render effective child and
school health services, including the integration of nutritional services, within
the scope of practice. Render effective Women’s Health including Antenatal
services within the scope of practice. Assist with management and execution
of all relevant HAST Programmes (TB, STI and HIV/AIDS). Work as part of the
multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality, promotive, preventive and curative
Primary Health Care delivery. To be an advocate for patients to ensure the
provision of quality Health Care necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Mullins, tel. no. (021) 810-8102, Mr M Kelejane, tel. no. (021) 931-0211,
Ms N Forosi, tel. no. (021) 826-2200,
Mr M Horne, tel. no. (021) 946-3790, Mr R Arendse, tel. no. (021) 534-4361
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration. The pool
of applicants will be considered for vacancies within (the Chief Directorate:
Metro Health Services), for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/202 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (TRAUMA AND OPD)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) OR a 4 Year bachelor’s degree in
nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary
184
Care Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
South African Nursing Council as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A
minimum of 4 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least
10 years of the period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable
experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Diploma in
Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment Care or a post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime,
public holidays and weekends. Willingness to work in other wards in hospital.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power
Point and Outlook.) Knowledge of appropriate legislation, regulations and
departmental Policies. Knowledge of the Hospital Emergency Centre Triage
Information Systems (HECTIS) and South African Triage System (SATS) and
Practical Approach to Care Kit (PACK). Knowledge and experience in human
resource management, quality assurance, financial and supply chain
procurement processes. Experience in the use of clinical equipment and
control of budget implementation and monitoring of standards. Effective
communication, Problem-solving, decision-making and resolution skills. PACK
training or experience. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-
disciplinary teamwork and work independently.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist with the management of the burden of
disease in accordance with the guidelines and protocols of the Western Cape.
Provide and maintain quality of care to all patients and health services.
Maintain accurate clinical records, statistics registers, and referral records.
Effective utilization of Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints.
Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork
but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower categories of staff.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms RZ De Silva, tel. no. (021) 808-6153
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care or a post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Primary Care Nursing.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/203 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Inzame Zabantu Community Day Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48). OR a 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary
Care Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
185
appropriate/ recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining
the one-year post-basic qualification or post graduate Diploma in the relavant
specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence
and willingness to travel. Willingness to render clinical support at other facilities
within the sub-structure if needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function independently, as well as in a
multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. NIMART training or
experience. Effective communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist with the managing and provision of clinical
comprehensive PHC service. Plan and implement Health Promotion and
Prevention activities in facility and community. Link with the community
structures and the NPO’s. Collect data and submit reports on or before time.
Assist with managing human and equipment resources. Ensure an effective
administrative service. Facilitate clinical teaching, training and health
education. Provision of effective clinical services. Partake in research activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Bizo, tel. no. (021) 830-6944
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification in: Curative Skills in Clinical Nursing Science: Health
Assessment, Treatment and Care accredited with the SANC (R48) or a post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/204 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MENTAL HEALTH)
(PSYCHIATRY WARD OPD)
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. - A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at
least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing
Science (R212). -OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade1: A Minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/ recognisable nursing
experience after registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General
Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the one-year post-basic
qualification year in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science (R212) or a post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing.
Inherent requirement of the job: Ability and willingness to assist with shifts
including weekends, public holidays, night duty relief and overtime as the need
arises. Willingness to rotate between departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy. Good written and verbal
communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy related to
the nursing speciality. Strong leadership and interpersonal skills. Good
organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of
nursing care plans and the education of the nursing personnel as a
186
Professional Nurse in the specific speciality clinical area. Render and supervise
specialised clinical nursing care and support clinical staff with procedures
within the specific clinical speciality unit. Utilize human, material and physical
resources and development of self and others. Display core values of the
Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while
practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the
public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel no. (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science or a post graduate
diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/205 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY AND
NEONATAL) (2 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing
Science (R212). Or - A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited in Midwifery. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the 1-year post-basic
qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours,
night duty and weekend cover for nursing. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health
Western Cape. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook).
Implement skills to plan and organize the service by problem solving and
decision making. Leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objectives in the Obstetrics Department. Ability to function independently, as
well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Ability to
communicate effectively (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing needs, the planning & implementation of nursing care
plans and the education of nursing personnel as Professional Nurse in the
Obstetric department Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively. Render and supervise specialized clinical nursing care and
support staff with surgical and medical procedures. Maintain & promote
professional growth/ethical standards and development of self and others.
Display of core values of the Department of Health & Wellness in the WCH. In
the execution of duties, while practicing within the legislation, regulations and
protocols applicable to public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NJ Mitchell tel. no. (023) 626-8519
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
187
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidate will
be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
required qualification will be appointed into the general stream, and they will
be required to obtain the necessary qualification within a predetermined period
of time. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for
registration in the post basic qualification in: A post-basic nursing qualification
with a duration of at least 1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced
Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science (R212) or A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited in Midwifery.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/206 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse and
Midwife. Post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year,
accredited with SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Midwife. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Advanced
Midwifery & Neonatal Nursing Science. Inherent requirements of the job:
Required to work shifts and after hours (weekend, public holidays, and night
duty). Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy. Good written
and verbal communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policy
related to the nursing speciality. Strong leadership and interpersonal skills.
Good organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Responsible for the provision and implementation
of comprehensive holistic nursing care and treatment to all pregnant clients.
Assist with management of people management services within the
Department. Effective utilization of financial resources within the department.
Ensure the promotion of Quality Assurance, Infection Control and Prevention
& Occupational Health & Safety within the Department. Deliver a support
service to the Operational Manager and ensure effective coordination of the
Nursing Division after hours.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Bruintjies, tel. no. (021) 816-8577
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification: The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within Metro Health Service, for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
188
POST 11/207 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma /
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Revenue (Hospital Fees,
Patient Administration, Medical Records and Case Management). Appropriate
experience in supervisory capacity. Appropriate experience in the key
performance areas of the job. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s
licence (Code B/EB) and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge and understanding of the healthcare
environment and relevant legislation and regulations within Revenue (Hospital
Fees, Patient Administration, Medical Records and Case Management). In-
depth knowledge of Revenue (Hospital Fees, Patient Administration, Medical
Records and Case Management) prescripts, guidelines, policies, and National
and Provincial target setting and knowledge pertaining related fiscal policies.
Strong problem-solving, lateral thinking, and revenue management skills,
complemented by proficiency in patient administration, report writing, and the
use of technology. Demonstrates excellent communication skills, as well as
strong training, presentation, interpersonal, leadership, and conflict resolution
abilities. Advance computer proficiency in MS Office (PowerPoint, Excel, Word)
and highly developed understanding of Health Information Systems such as
but not limited to SINJANI, Clinicom, BAS, SYSPRO, JAC, DHIS, SharePoint,
SPV, PHCIS, Tier.Net, HECTIS, and eCCR, etc. Good leadership and
interpersonal skills, with the ability to work independently and as part of a team.
Excellent communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effectively and efficiently provide leadership and
manage the Revenue (Hospital Fees, Patient Administration, Medical Records
and Case Management) section in the Finance Directorate, to achieve its
goals, objectives and targets by providing interpretation, application and
ensure compliance to all policies, regulations, prescripts and instructions.
Support the implementation of Revenue (Hospital Fees, Patient Administration,
Medical Records and Case Management) policies, data collection tools,
definitions, standard operating procedures, and monitor and coordinate data
flow processes, according to policy time frames. Support internal and external
stakeholders in terms of revenue management and patient administration.
Must adhere to requirements of the different levels of reporting i.e. Provincial
and National levels. Manage the production of relevant, timeous and accurate
operational reports. Monitor revenue collection to ensure collection targets are
met. Ensure efficient and accurate billing of patients including correct
classification of patients. Monitor debtors accounts and manage debt collection
processors including medical aid patients. Managing of hospital patient records
and related administrative processes of recordkeeping and disposal
processes. Oversight of Case Management protocols and ensuring efficient
auditing of patient records related to adequate billing and ICD10 coding.
Performing audit readiness assessments, liaison with auditors (external and
internal) and deal with audit queries. Management of staff in the component,
including staff performance, R&S process, training, disciplinary process and
general support of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AAH Malgas, tel. no. (021) 938-4014
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A competency
test will form part of the selection process.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/208 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Support Service
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree or
related field. Experience: Appropriate experience in supply chain management
within a public sector environment. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B) driver’s licence. Ability to work
under pressure and across multiple EMS sites. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to manage confidential information. In-depth
189
knowledge of demand, acquisition, contract, asset, warehouse and disposal
management. Knowledge of bid committee processes and SCM legislative
frameworks. Advanced computer literacy (Excel, Word, PowerPoint). Strong
analytical, organisational, problem-solving and communication skills.
Interpersonal, leadership and conflict-management skills. Extensive
knowledge and experience in PFMA, NTRs, PTIs, AOS, LOGIS and
Procurement Integration systems.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage demand and acquisition management,
including the development and coordination of the EMS annual demand and
procurement plan and execution of compliant procurement processes.
Coordinate and support bid committee processes, including specification
drafting, bid evaluations, compliance checks and implementation of committee
resolutions. Administer and monitor contracts, maintain a comprehensive
contract register and ensure supplier performance, renewals, extensions and
quality control. Manage asset, warehouse and disposal functions, including
maintaining the EMS asset register, conducting stock takes across 52 stations
and overseeing warehouse operations. Ensure SCM governance and
compliance, including reporting, audit responses, irregular expenditure
monitoring, DICU assessments and implementation of corrective actions.
Compile and submit all required SCM reports, including monthly, quarterly and
annual compliance reports and RFI file maintenance. Manage and develop
SCM staff, including performance management, training coordination,
discipline, recruitment and workload planning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Wylie, tel. no. (021) 508-4517
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/209 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/ Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Degree/National
Diploma. Experience: Appropriate experience in Financial Accounting and
Financial Management. Appropriate supervisory or management experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s license. Willingness
to travel and work extra hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge
and practical experience of BAS and PERSAL system. Knowledge and
practical experience of the AFS/IFS processes. Knowledge of the PFMA,
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Accounting
Officer’s System of the Department. Computer literacy (Ms Word, Excel and
PowerPoint. Excellent verbal and written communication skill. Accuracy and
attention to detail. Knowledge of the Accounting Officer’s System specifically
Procurement prescribes.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure efficient budget, expenditure, accounts and
revenue management. Management of conditional grants, transfer and sundry
payments. Provide input into and coordinate the AFS/IFS on District level.
Compliance management & respond to audit queries. District Office
administration. Manage the Finance section and ensure the correct application
of accounting classification codes. Oversee human resources within the
section, general management and administrative support within the section.
Completion and coordinating monthly BMI and IYM. Reconciliation and
clearing of monthly assets & liabilities accounts. Develop and implement
Finance SOP’s for the sub-structure. Coordinate periodic finance meetings.
Facilitate budget allocation, adjustment and Submission process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Dzanibe, tel.no (021) 360-4200 or email:
malusi.dzanibe@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Assistant Director: Finance post
within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months
from date of advert. Candidates may be subjected to a written/practical and
oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
190
POST 11/210 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : EMS Finance and Supply Chain, U2 – Tygerberg Hospital premises
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/Degree or
related field. Experience: Appropriate experience in financial administration
within a public sector environment. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to
work independently and as part of a team. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Sound knowledge of financial management, budgeting, expenditure and
revenue processes. Advanced computer literacy (Excel, Word, PowerPoint).
Strong analytical, problem solving and communication skills. Leadership,
interpersonal and conflict management skills. Extensive knowledge and
experience in PFMA, NTRs, PTIs, BAS and SYSPRO.
DUTIES : key result areas/outputs): Manage financial planning, budgeting and
expenditure control within EMS, including MTEF and adjustment estimates.
Monitor in year expenditure, compile IYM reports and ensure 30 day payment
compliance. Implement and maintain financial governance, internal controls
and audit processes, including irregular expenditure registers. Prepare
monthly, quarterly and annual financial reports, including AFS/IFS inputs and
monitoring accruals and commitments. Support and monitor EMS revenue
management processes, reporting and compliance with billing policies.
Supervise and develop finance staff through performance management, leave
planning and skills development. Manage recruitment, disciplinary matters and
grievance procedures within the finance component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Wylie, tel. no. (021) 508-4517
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/211 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (GOODS &
SERVICES) 2 POSTS
Directorate: Supply Chain Management (Sourcing)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in Supply Chain Management/Procurement/Law/Public
Management/Finance/Auditing/Project Management/Commercial field) or
equivalent. Experience: Appropriate experience in Managing Tenders, Demand
Management and Contract Administration within a Supply Chain Management
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of negotiating with suppliers,
procurement prescripts and government bid procedures. Must be able to work
under pressure. Ability to perform calculations relating to foreign currency,
CPIX, etc. Ability to handle matters of a confidential nature Knowledge relating
to management of contracts, Tenders and the legal aspect of it. Computer
literacy (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) Ability to work accurately with figures, data
analysis and reporting. Sound knowledge of various legislations governing
supply chain management and National Treasury Prescripts. Knowledge of
Demand and Acquisition Management.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Handle all procurement and Tender management
processes. Provide input on bid specifications in accordance with agreed
strategies and objectives. Scrutinize bids received to ensure Bidder
compliance. Compile Memorandum to Bid Adjudication Committee. Execute
Bid Committee and Delegate’s resolutions. Responsible for finalizing
applications for price escalations for index and Rate of Exchange claims.
Inspect contractors’ premises and vigilantly monitor contractors’ performance.
Ensure that service level agreements exist and are effectively managed and
compliance thereto is monitored. Ensure the monitoring of compliance by
service providers and institutions to their contractual obligations. Supervise
staff. Comply with reporting requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Mili, tel. no. (021) 834 9051, e-mail: Ayanda.Mili@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
191
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/212 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Directorate: Information Management
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National Diploma
or degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in managing and supporting
hospital information systems, specifically Clinicom and related HIS
applications. Appropriate experience in support and maintenance. Appropriate
experience in system support and maintenance, including monitoring system
performance, resolving incidents, managing helpdesk calls, analysing root
causes of system issues and ensuring timely resolution to maintain operational
continuity. Appropriate experience of hospital administrative and clinical
processes. Appropriate experience working on Electronic Health Record
systems/modules. Appropriate experience in training, user support, and
system administration. Appropriate experience with clinical and administrative
processes in hospital or PHC settings. Appropriate experience with master data
management, quality control, and systems integration (e.g., NHLS, JAC,
PHCIS, PREHMIS). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license.
Willingness to travel to WCDHW health institutions. Willingness to work
overtime when required Proven ability to lead and work effectively within a team
environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Strong problem-solving abilities and abilities to escalate
issues appropriately. Ability to provide user training and support across multiple
systems. Accurate data capturing and strong attention to detail. Computer
literacy, including MS Office and MS Teams. Knowledge of Clinicom, Clinicom
Evergreen, eCCR, FBE, EMCI, PMI Hygiene, NetTerm, BMC Remedy, HPRS,
Terminology Services, and integration platforms. Understanding of business
process re-engineering and patient flow. Understanding of system
maintenance, enhancement processes, and quality control procedures.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Managing and supporting Hospital Information
Systems (HIS), specifically Clinicom and related applications, ensuring the
effective operation, coordination, user support and system oversight across
facilities. Provide operational oversight and support for Clinicom, NetTerm,
eCCR and related systems, including incident management, system
monitoring, release communication and ensuring the effective functioning of
hospital information systems across supported facilities. Liaise and
communicate with HIS Management, Hospital Management, Information
Officers and IT (CeI) regarding system updates, operational issues, outages,
risks and system-related information, ensuring that relevant stakeholders are
informed and supported. Attend and participate in Application Centre meetings,
MANCO sessions, workshops and hospital HIS or IMU meetings, and facilitate
System Manager and System Controller meetings where required. Manage
and implement system change control processes, including the maintenance
and updating of Master Files such as Inpatient, Outpatient, Service Groups,
Medical Records, Theatre, Waiting Lists and Global Master Files through
NetTerm in accordance with approved processes and Head Office
requirements. Coordinate and support system enhancements, new
requirements and system development initiatives, including participation in
Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions, sprint reviews and design
discussions, and assist with the rollout and implementation of new system
modules across facilities. Provide onsite and remote support to facilities,
including scheduled visits and virtual assistance, while assisting with system-
related hardware and software issues such as workstation configuration,
printing, client software and related technical challenges. Manage user access
administration and audit compliance, including processing access requests,
maintaining appropriate documentation and ensuring compliance with system
governance, audit and reporting requirements. Support operational system
workflows, including assisting users with AR (Billing) processes, Cost Centre
Requisitioning (CCR), clinic cancellations, duplicate death corrections, diary
template creation and other operational system functions. Maintain data
integrity and quality control, including Patient Master Index (PMI) data
management between PHCIS and PREHMIS, conducting quality control on
system interfaces with third-party systems such as Centricity Cardiology, RIS,
192
ECM, PHCIS and PREHMIS, and developing or maintaining quality control
scripts and packages. Identify and coordinate training requirements for system
users and Information Management staff, develop training schedules for
Information Officers and Core Trainers, and deliver formal or informal training
on system functionality, enhancements and processes. Manage staff and HR-
related responsibilities, including performance management, staff
development, leave management and task allocation. Provide data reporting
and analytical support, including generating patient and user reports through
data mining applications such as Impromptu and supporting information
management and operational reporting requirements. Provide after-hours
system support when required to ensure continuity of operations and support
additional facilities where operationally necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj, tel.no. (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/213 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in the field of Human Resource Management. Experience:
Appropriate experience in human resource management (salary
administration, employee relations & people development). Appropriate
supervisory and PERSAL experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
driver’s licence, Code B/EB. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven
knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Prescripts and Public Service Act
and Audit compliance prescripts. Strong managerial and supervisory skills and
computer skills (MS Word and PowerPoint) and good interpersonal,
organizational skills and ability to function under pressure and meet deadlines.
Problem solving, decision making and time management skills. Knowledge and
skills regarding operational planning in a human resource management
environment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective management of human resource
administration in line with audit requirements. Effective Compliance
Management in line with Departmental Policies & prescripts, Auditor-General
requirements, Ideal Hospital Framework and Office of Health Standards and
Compliance. Management of employee development and training initiatives to
enhance organisational performance. Effective management of employee
relations processes. Supervision & Optimal Support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CN Cornelius, tel. no. (021) 834-5897
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/214 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE (BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Financial Accounting, Management Accounting, Auditing or a
related field. Experience: Appropriate experience with a proven track record
across key areas of financial accounting. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
Code B/EB driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work
under pressure and handle matters of a confidential nature. Experience in data
analytics and Excel template development. Strong people management and
the ability to work effectively within a multidisciplinary team. Sound problem-
solving abilities, strong written and verbal communication, presentation
capability, and project management skills. Strong technical financial abilities,
with experience in audit and accounting environments. Competence in
preparing financial reports and analysing financial prescripts. Experience in
contributing to Annual and Interim Financial Statements (AFS/IFS), accrual
accounting, the Modified Cash Standard (MCS), and/or GRAP. Advanced
193
computer literacy, including Excel, Word, and PowerPoint. Knowledge of BAS,
LOGIS, Syspro and Supply Chain Management processes.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide leadership and oversee the Finance
Department, including the Merchant Account and Ledger Account sections.
Manage and control debt ledger accounts, debt administration, and
reconciliation processes. Oversee control of ledger accounts, including payroll,
asset and liability accounts, and miscellaneous recoveries. Oversee
disbursement processes and ensure compliance with financial prescripts for all
supplier payments. Manage the Syspro 6 (Material Management System)
Accounts Payable module and associated data capturing. Control and maintain
the institutional budget and provide management with accurate and timely
reports. Oversee statistical reporting and provide financial information to
support decision-making on expenditure trends, projections, cost drivers, and
variances. Manage staff performance, training and development, and attend to
relevant HR matters. Liaise with internal stakeholders to support effective
financial governance, including oversight of irregular, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure. Promote a positive organisational culture through change
management, innovation, conflict resolution, and risk mitigation within the
Finance Section. Provide input and responses to audit queries and support
audit processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Frank, tel no. (021) 404-3248
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/215 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital, Southern Western Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in all aspects of human resource
and facility management. Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate
PERSAL experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to do Standby
Duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of Human
Resource policies, procedures, prescripts, HR audit compliance prescripts,
management of the Approved Post list (APL), establishment control, Human
Resource Development and Labour Relations. Leadership, management,
planning and coordination skills. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
The ability to function independently and in a multi-disciplinary team. Computer
literacy (MS Word/Excel/Powerpoint/Outlook). Ability to think creatively and
apply ideas. Good written skills ie. able to draft complex letters, memos, reports
etc.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Optimized management of talent acquisition,
selection and appointment processes. Efficient oversight of performance
management and assessments. Ensure sound and competent management of
Training & Development, Labour Relations/Employee Relations and foster and
promote employee wellness. Effective and efficient governance of HR
Administration, Conditions of Service & Remuneration and Quality and Risk
Management processes. Effective Facility Management which comprises of
the following areas: Technical Services, Transport, Telecom services and
Grounds. Management of subordinates and support to Manager Medical
Services and department heads.
ENQUIRIES : Dr MS Rambiyana, tel. no. (021) 832-5202
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No Payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/216 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HR AND FACILITY MANAGEMENT
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Hospital
194
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in managing of staff in a health
facility. Appropriate experience in all aspects of personnel management, labour
relations and staff development. PERSAL experience. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound and relevant knowledge regarding the
Governmental or departmental policies and legislation. Good communication
(written and verbal). Supervisory and leadership skills. Computer skills (MS
Office, Excel and PowerPoint). Sound and relative knowledge of Human
Resource policies and practices. Contract management knowledge and skills.
Proven track record as an effective line manager. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Facilitate, co-ordinate and manage HR Planning,
Recruitment and Selection, Human Resource Development, Human Resource
Administration and sound Labour Relations within the Sub-district. Implement
and maintain policy documents/circulars as well as the provision of training on
aspects of conditions of service within the Sub-district. Manage and co-ordinate
the implementation of Occupational Specific Dispensations within the Sub-
district. Administer and ensure that audit investigations and follow-up
investigations as well as feedback on Auditor- General and ensure that
enquiries and action plans are done timeously. Manage the Support Services
of the hospital which comprise of the following areas: cleaning, pest control,
waste management, morgue, porter services, transport, telecom services,
security, workshop, laundry and linen services. Manage and co-ordinate the
SPMS system and PILIR processes.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Beyers, tel. no. (023) 626-8543
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via Www.Westerncape.Gov.Za/Health-Jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/217 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
Grade 3: R543 099 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer (Diagnostic). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Radiographer (Diagnostic). Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Diagnostic)
in respect of RSA qualified employees. One-year relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Diagnostic) in respect of foreign
qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service,
as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Diagnostic) in
respect of SA qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration with the HPCSA in Radiography (Diagnostic) in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to provide a 24-hour service. Ability to lift patients. Ability to work
long hours. Willingness to perform standby duties, work weekends, public
holidays and overtime if requested. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of protocols and radiation protection. Quality assurance and
equipment safety. Good interpersonal skills and effective performance as part
of a multidisciplinary team. Knowledge of PACS and Radiology information
systems. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide a Radiographic service. Produce diagnostic
images of high quality. Optimal patient care. Safe use and care of equipment.
Accurate record keeping and management of radiology unit at George
Regional Hospital. Assist with training of junior radiographers. Participate in
continuing professional development activities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SM Loff, tel. no. (044) 802-4567
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
195
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/218 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R397 233 per annum
Grade 2: R463 941 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain Community Health Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Physiotherapist.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Physiotherapist in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Physiotherapist in respect
of RSA-qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
perform after hours and weekend duties. A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Willingness to render clinical support at other facilities within the Sub-structure.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Thorough knowledge of all aspects relating
to physiotherapy interventions in general. Assertiveness, creativity &
dedication to optimal but realistic level of care. Ability to work under pressure.
Ability to take into consideration the necessary precautions for the specific
medical condition of each patient. Ability to maintain and update knowledge
and technique in all aspects of physiotherapy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Providing and rendering physiotherapy service
within the level of service delivery. Perform administrative processes relating
to smooth running of a physiotherapy department. Effective management of
human and physical resources. Contributing to clinical education and training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Y Samuels, tel. no. (021) 684-1400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”. Candidates will be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/219 : COMMUNICATION OFFICER: EMS
Directorate: Communications
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (stationed at Bellville Health Park, Bellville)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree in Communication, Journalism, or Public Relations.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a communication, public relations or
196
media environment, which include building and managing client and
stakeholder relationships; developing visual communication products; media,
reputation and response management; internal communication, brand
management, and developing and executing communication campaigns.
Appropriate experience in a communication or media environment. Appropriate
experience in Adobe InDesign, video editing software, and photography.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s license. Willing to
be on standby for media queries and to occasionally travel for work. Ability to
communicate fluently in English and Afrikaans or isiXhosa. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Developing and executing communication campaigns.
Reactive and proactive reputation management. Visual and written storytelling
and content development. Creating and packaging content aimed at specific
platforms and audiences. Photography and videography. Excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Excellent time
management. Understanding and interpreting complex figures and narratives.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Conceptualisation and implementation of
communication plans and campaigns. Reputation and response management.
Internal communication and brand management. Project and event
management. Building and maintaining a positive narrative across all
platforms. Monitoring and evaluation of communication campaigns, risks, and
sentiment. Feedback and reporting on area of responsibility.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Lesch, tel. no. (021) 483- 3245
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/220 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT (PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma/
Degree. Experience: Appropriate Supervisory experience. Appropriate
experience in all aspects of personnel, salary and the PERSAL system.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent communication skills. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint. Knowledge and experience of PERSAL
and their relevant functions.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): The management and supervision of staff within the
Personnel Office, the incumbent will also be expected to do relief duties in
areas were a need is identified. Handling of HR Transversal matters within the
Department such as Special Leave, salary recalls and management of
overtime authorisations for the Institution. Manage, plan and co-ordinate the
Personnel Office with regards to implementation and adhering to relevant
policies, procedures, prescripts. -Provide assistance to clients, personnel,
management and supervisors. To also perform Ad hoc task. Ensure policy
implementation, co-ordination and provide necessary training. Responsible for
compensation management, including OSD matters and grade progression.
Assist, Complete and follow up compliance investigations. Development and
training of staff. Assist with implementation of performance management which
include pay progression, performance awards, performance agreement and
staff performance management (SPMS) process. Investigate grievances about
service benefits and SPMS. Monitor and ensure compliance/quality.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Leokame, tel. no. (021) 938-4535
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/221 : SYSTEM CONTROLLER
Directorate: Information Technology
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (HIS: Regional Support)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year Diploma or Degree
(or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate working experience in Health
197
Information Technology and Health IT Systems and suitable skills in IT service
management, system administration, data quality assurance, and end-user
support. Appropriate experience in- training end-users and core trainers on
system functionality. Appropriate experience in report writing and the use of
tools such as Microsoft Excel, Power BI, and helpdesk systems (e.g., BMC).
Appropriate experience in a Health environment will be to your advantage.
Appropriate experience in managing and supporting hospital information
systems, specifically CLINICOM and related HIS applications. Appropriate
experience in providing support and maintenance to health institutions.
Appropriate experience in system support for the Integrated Health Solution
(IHS), including modules such as AR Billing, PHCIS, Clinical Documentation,
HECTIS, CARES. Inherent requirements of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to travel to Department of Health and Wellness
facilities and services across the Western Cape. Willingness to work overtime,
with flexibility and adaptability in a changing Health IT environment. Proven
ability to lead and work effectively within a team environment. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Broad knowledge of health servi-ce business processes.
Strong communication skills to manage change processes and engage
constructively with colleagues, managers, and stakeholders. Knowledge of
system administration, user access management, and master file
maintenance. Training and facilitation skills for both end-users and core
trainers. Problem-solving skills and business process re-engineering
capabilities. High computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Teams,
OneDrive, SharePoint). Ability to produce accurate system reports and conduct
quality control testing of new releases. Competency in health facility systems
and processes, supported by relevant knowledge, skills, or work experience
within a healthcare facility.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide end user support across all health facilities
and services in the Western Cape for various health application, especially
CLINICOM. Respond to and resolve he-lpdesk calls, investigate problems, and
escalate where required. Maintain and update master files, manage change
control processes, control system access and print management, and ensure
effective system operation. Identify training needs, coordinate and deliver
training to users and core trainers, and ensure knowledge transfer of new
system changes. Contribute to business process reengineering across IHS
modules, ensuring the solution is optimised for efficiency and effectiveness.
Conduct quality control testing on new releases, gene-rate reports, encourage
correct system usage, and ensure dissemination of accurate information.
Assist with development, testing, and implementation of new or enhanced IHS
modules and functionality. Update and maintain system user manuals,
guidelines, and procedures. Provide additional support to the supervisor and
system managers as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Maharaj, tel. no. (021) 938-6513
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when you are applying for this post.
Shortlisted candidates will be required to undergo competency
assessments/proficiency tests.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00pm
POST 11/222 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (FEES)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in a Hospital Fees
environment including Hospital Information Systems. Experience that focuses
on the KRA's of the post. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to relief colleagues in areas. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Budget. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint). Good Interpersonal and Labour Relations abilities. Good
Managing Skills. Sound knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum Chapter 18,
HIS (Clinicom/AR), UPFS, PFMA and Treasury Instructions.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage and provide support to areas with regards
to Revenue Generation. Ensure all Revenue monthly Targets are received
monthly from Medical Aids, other 3rd parties and self-funded patients to reach
year-end target. Manage and provide support to areas with regards to Revenue
198
Collection. Ensure crediting of all payments are done on the BAS System as
well as Billing system. Monitor balancing between the BAS. Staff are managed
appropriately in terms of HR policies. Ensuring all Reporting functions are
timeously met.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MA Khan, tel. no. (021) 404-3264
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM.
POST 11/223 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT
Directorate: Management Accounting
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An Appropriate three-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital fees
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to travel and spend
short periods away from the office. A valid Code B/EB driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good knowledge of the PFMA; relevant NTR
& PTI. Ability to build relationships, negotiating, mediating conflict with multiple
stakeholders, Good written and verbal communication skills; presentation skills
Knowledge and the ability to perform and train staff in the COID claims process
and systems. Good leadership ability, supervision; managerial and planning
skills. Advanced Ability to work with MS Office – Excel, PowerPoint and Word.
Working experience of BAS functions. Ability to work independently and within
a team environment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Liaise with State Departments re outstanding debt
matters. (SANDF; DCS; WCA & SAPS). Follow-up on outstanding accounts
owed to the WC health facilities. Arrange and coordinate meetings with State
Departments to foster good relations and manage debt. Negotiate and arrange
payment for long outstanding accounts. Prepare monthly management reports
on the status of debt for all State Departments. Revise sundry tariffs on an
annual basis. Draft finance instructions; treasury submissions and official
written correspondence. Co-ordinate capacity building initiatives in the form of
workshops and training etc. Performing BAS transactions. Clearing of Ledger
Accounts - General and Special Journals. Supervision of support staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A van Driel, tel. no. (021) 483-3297 or Mr M Schultz, tel. no. (021) 483-4678
or on MS Teams
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/224 : CASE MANAGER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year health-related
National Diploma/Degree registrable with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) or South African Nursing Council (SANC). Experience:
Appropriate experience in the Managed Health Care sector i.e. Case
Management or Medical Aid environment and Revenue Generation.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Medical Schemes Act 131
of 1998, regulations and annexures as amended and basic knowledge of the
uniform patient fees schedule and patient billing. Knowledge of prescribed
minimum benefits i.e. the chronic disease list and diagnostic treatment pairs
and knowledge of and experience in ICD 10 Codes assignment, the ability to
link patient diagnosis with procedure codes and knowledge of Clinicom and
EDI (Electronic Data Interchange). Ability to work with Excel spread sheets,
Microsoft Word and web-based programs (medical aids). Excellent
communication, conflict management, interpersonal and leadership skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Perform Case Management functions, i.e. obtaining
pre-authorization and verification of benefits as needed, concurrent,
retrospective review, discharge planning and provide quotations to H2, H3 and
foreign patients. Assist with Medikredit EDI rejection reports and ensure
199
corrections are completed timeously and resubmitted to Medikredit. Liaise with
the various role-players e.g. clinicians, managed care organizations and
medical scheme case managers to monitor utilisation and update patient’s
clinical information while in hospital. Manage and implement case
management policies, protocols and procedures in the hospital. Conduct
clinical audits of patient accounts inclusive of medical aids, state departments
e.g. RAF and COIDA to ensure accuracy of invoices with regard to ICD 10
codes, UPFS procedure codes and resource utilization. Manage and supervise
Case Management and Revenue departments.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Abrahams, tel. no. (021) 834-5894
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/225 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER (EMPLOYMENT POLICY AND
PRACTICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year HR related National
Diploma or Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in Human Resource
Administration, with specific exposure to compensation management,
performance management and HR compliance/audits. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s license and willingness to travel.
Willingness to work after hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
knowledge of Public Service HR policies, prescripts and legislation and Audit
and compliance monitoring skills. Understanding of Compensation
Management and PERSAL processes Knowledge of Performance
Management and Development System (PMDS/PERMIS) Presentation and
Computer Skills (MS Office, Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render a comprehensive Human Resource policy
advisory service to institutions by providing guidance and training on the
interpretation and implementation of Public Service legislation, departmental
prescripts and circulars, maintaining an updated policy registry, and ensuring
correct application of HR practices across the sub-structure. Administer
Compensation Management processes which include quality checking of
salary determinations, monitoring professional council deductions, and
providing support and training to facilities on remuneration related matters.
Support audit and compliance functions by conducting audits, following up on
Auditor-General and Internal Audit findings, assisting institutions with
completion of CMI and HRAAP requirements, conducting sample testing, and
facilitating corrective measures to address identified gaps. Administer the
Performance Management and Development System by coordinating PMDS
and PERMIS processes, checking performance grids, capturing pay
progression transactions on PERSAL, monitoring poor performance cases,
and ensuring compliance with departmental timelines. Provide institutional
support and capacity building through PERMIS helpdesk assistance, training
interventions based on audit outcomes, investigation of grievances in line with
prescripts, and ongoing guidance to managers and staff on HR administrative
processes. Support efficient component management by supervising and
guiding staff where applicable, acting in the supervisor’s capacity when
required, representing the component at meetings, maintaining reporting
systems, and ensuring effective communication with stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Van Eyssen, tel. no. (021) 815-8862
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/226 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HRM (COMPLIANCE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Southern / Western Sub-structure Office
200
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National Diploma
and/or Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in all the KRA’s of this
post. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B / EB driver’s license and
willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer skills MS
Office packages (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Outlook and PERSAL. The ability
to effectively communicate in at least two of the three official languages of the
Western Cape. Knowledge of HR policies, procedures & practices. Ability to
execute duties accurately and thoroughly. Good interpersonal and problem-
solving skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure policy implementation, co-ordination and
provide training where necessary. Assist with compensation management,
including OSD and Pay/Grade Progression matters. Conduct audit
investigations / sample testing and report on compliance. Assist with
compilation of compliance monitoring tools. Create and maintain compliance
toolkit updates for Line Managers. Coordinate Departmental E Disclosure &
ORW processes for the District. Provide support and advisory service to CHC’s
and Hospitals within the Southern/Western Sub-Structure & training and
development of staff. Assist with the implementation of the Staff Performance
Management system for all employees. Support and investigate grievances
related to service benefits. Assist staff, supervisor, management with enquiries
related to Policy & Practices.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Ganief, tel. no. (021) 202-0962.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/227 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (BUDGETING AND
EXPENDITURE)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National
Degree/Diploma in Accounting/Financial Management. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a finance department. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Assets and Liabilities accounts. Knowledge
of Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of BAS and PERSAL. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage Filing of documentation. Manage BAS
payments, Journal entries and Debt take-on’s. Manage the allocation of Cash
Receipts. Manage the clearance of various Assets and Liabilities accounts.
Render clerical assistance to the Assistant Director in the Finance section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Frank, tel. no. (021) 404-3248
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/228 : CHIEF FORENSIC OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Emergency Clinical and Services Support
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Extensive experience in Forensic (Medico-legal) practice
especially in the Evisceration environment. Appropriate Human Resource
Management experience. Appropriate Supervisory experience in Forensic
Pathology. Relevant Occupational Health and Safety experience with regards
to Dissection. Appropriate Contract Management experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: A Valid driver’s license (Code EB/B). Will be required
to work Standby and Overtime duties. Will be required to wear uniform. Above
average ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and in writing.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and application of regulations,
policies and standards pertaining to the Forensic Pathology process. Ability to
work under pressure, meet deadlines and solve complex problems in a multi-
201
disciplinary team. Sound knowledge and understanding of legislation
pertaining to Forensic Pathology Service and ethical issues in Forensic
Pathology Service. Appropriate people and planning skills. Ability to interpret
service level agreements. Ability to interpret and apply policies. Good working
knowledge of relevant legislation, Regulations and policies governing Forensic
Mortuary procedures. Above-average Computer and Software literacy in MS
Excel and Word, FPS, BIM Systems and ECM. Ability to teach and train
Evisceration techniques. Ability to work with corpses (mutilated, decomposed,
infectious viruses, etc). Will be required to assist in the planning/ training of
Major incident exercises as well as involvement in Major incident roles. Will be
required to investigate and gather evidence for Pathologists. (Statements,
reports, Hospital notes and folders).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): An efficient support service to the Manager with
regard to management of the Forensic Pathology Laboratory by supervising
staff in the effective and efficient recovery, storage and processing of
deceased. An effective Forensic Autopsy process rendered in accordance with
set standards and guidelines. An effective and efficient Management of
corpses. An effective specimen, exhibit and property management process
rendered in accordance with set standards and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A White, email: Andrew.White@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The candidate
will be subjected to an interview and competency test. Candidates will be
subjected to security clearance prior to appointment. Shortlisted candidates
may be subjected to a psychometric evaluation. “The pool of applicants will be
considered for vacancies within Forensic Pathology Service, Observatory
Forensic Pathology Institute for a period of three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/229 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE (FEES)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in a Hospital Fees
environment including Hospital Information Systems. Experience that focuses
on the KRA's of the post. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willing to relief colleagues in areas. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Budget. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
Power Point). Good Interpersonal and Labour Relations abilities. Good
Managing Skills. Sound knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum Chapter 18,
HIS (Clinicom/AR), UPFS, PFMA and Treasury Instructions.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage and provide support to areas with regards
to Revenue Generation. Ensure all Revenue monthly Targets are received
monthly from Medical Aids, other 3rd parties and self-funded patients to reach
year-end target. Manage and provide support to areas with regards to Revenue
Collection. Ensure crediting of all payments are done on the BAS System as
well as Billing system. Monitor balancing between the BAS. Staff are managed
appropriately in terms of HR policies. Ensuring all Reporting functions are
timeously met.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MA Khan, tel no. (021) 404-3264
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM.
POST 11/230 : CHIEF FOOD SERVICES MANAGER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in Food Service Management (or equivalent qualification).
Experience: Appropriate managerial and supervisory experience in a large-
202
scale Hospital Food Service environment. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, weekends, and public holidays if it is required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of hygiene and safety
procedures in an industrial Food Service Unit. Problem solving, decision
making and time management skills. Computer literacy and the ability to create
spreadsheets, word documents and presentations in Microsoft Office
Knowledge and skills regarding managing the operation of an industrial Food
Service Unit.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Overall management and control of the Food
Service Unit. Plan and develop the strategic management of the Food Services
Unit. Manage risks and quality assurance within the Food Service Unit.
Manage all related Human Resource Management matters of the Foodservices
Unit. Financial Management and stock control of the Foodservices Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CN Cornelius, tel. no. (021) 834-5897
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are short-listed for interviews will be expected to complete a practical test.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Director Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/231 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An accredited secretarial diploma and/or
administrative qualification on the level of NQF level 5 (a certificate of
completion should be provided). Qualification on a higher level may also be
accepted on condition that the subjects of the qualification align to the functions
as per the attached job description. Experience: Appropriate experience in
rendering a support service to middle and senior management. Appropriate
experience in office administration and/or management, which includes
financial management, asset management, logistical support. Inherent
requirement of the job: Experience in minute taking in high – level meetings.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer skills – intermediate to advance
(MS Office). Excellent verbal and written communication skills. Excellent
interpersonal, time management, office management and organizational skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render a secretarial service to the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO). Provide a receptionist support service to the office of the CEO
including answering and directing telephone calls as well as visitors and proper
scheduling of meetings. Ensure adequate, timeous preparation for meetings.
Render administrative support to the office of the CEO including typing minutes
in meetings and certain documents when required and ensure accuracy of
documents and ensuring good recording keeping including effective and
efficient filing system. Effectively and efficiently manage the diary of the CEO’s
meetings i.e. logistics arrangements, venues, etc. Support the CEO with the
administration of the budget and supply chain, including maintenance of
equipment and ensuring office equipment is operational. Render secretarial
functions to the Facility Board.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Johnson, tel.no. (021) 377-4307
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test. No payments of any kind is required
when applying for this post. As directed by the Department of Public Service
and Administration, applicants must note that further checks will be conducted
once they are shortlisted and that their appointment is subject to positive
outcomes on these checks, which include security clearance, qualification,
verification, criminal records and previous employment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
203
POST 11/232 : RINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER (TRANSVERSAL EMPLOYMENT AND
COID MATTERS)
Directorate: People Management Planning and Practices
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in people management administration.
Appropriate experience in COIDA and Basic Conditions of Employment Act.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B) driver's license.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Public Service Act and
Collective Agreements. Sound knowledge of Compensation for Occupational
and Diseases Act, (COIDA). Sound knowledge of the BAS systems. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Ability to deal with high volumes of
work and to work under pressure. Computer literacy (PERSAL, MS Excel, MS
Word, Outlook).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Administer Subsistence and Travel (S&T) Claims for
all Head Office personnel and provide training. Administer Advance Claims for
all head office personnel and coordinate the process in consultation with
finance. Administration of Sabbatical Leave and Overseas Applications in the
Department. Administer COID cases for the Department, including the
payment of accounts. Implement and maintain databases for all functions and
provide statistics monthly. Render a supervisor and support function to staff
and liaise with various role players.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Kwatala tel. no. (021) 483-5711
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/233 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN (REVENUE)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with appropriate experience/competencies that focuses on the
Key Performance Areas (KPA's) of the post. Experience: Appropriate
supervisory experience in Revenue Department. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (Word, Excel) in terms of collating,
interpreting and inserting data into a spreadsheet. Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Ability to work independently and function well within a
team. Knowledge of patient fee tariff structure. Knowledge of revenue, debtor,
banking and cash management. Understanding hospital fees, policies and
procedures, medical scheme Act 131 of 1998, PFMA of 1999, Hospital
Information systems (e.g. Clinicom, AR etc). Practical working experience in
computer literacy (Microsoft office and internet). Ability to work under pressure,
handle a high work volume and meet strict deadlines.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure accurate allocation of revenue received on
the account receivables. Active follow-up of all debt. Supervise hospital fees
staff in accordance with all relevant Personnel and labour relations polices.
Ensure optimal revenue collection with due consideration to the revenue target.
Effective human resource management of the revenue and cashier
components. Oversight of debtors and outstanding accounts across categories
such as state departments, RAF, medical aids, and Elate estates.
Reconciliation of BAS ad HIS systems Comprehensive management of
hospital billing and revenue processes. Monitoring and correcting EDI
rejections and billing errors. Compilation of detailed compliance and financial
reports in adherence to PFMA, UPFS, and other regulatory prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LI Kitshini, tel. no. (021) 938-4387
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
204
POST 11/234 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN (REVENUE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Garden Route District Office, George
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Revenue budgets, assets & liabilities accounts, Income generation and
hospital fees systems (UPFS, Chapter 18). Appropriate practical experience in
Clinicom, AR, JAC, HIS and BAS. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
Driver’s license (Code B/EB) and willingness to drive a GG Vehicle. Willingness
to work overtime when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
knowledge and understanding of Hospital Fees, Hospital Information Systems
(Clinicom, Account Receivable, UPFS, Cashiers Functions, Medical Records,
BAS and Asset and Liability accounts as well as Chapter 18). Computer literacy
(Microsoft Excel, Word, Outlook, Internet). Demonstrate strong problem-
solving, analytical, and people management skills. Ability to execute duties
accurately, working under pressure and meet strict deadlines.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Capturing of payments and journals on BAS to clear
Asset & liability accounts. Releasing transactions on AR on behalf of
institutions in the Garden Route District. Responsible for all the cashier
functions by replenishing petty cash and handle state money responsibly.
Monthly/yearly reporting to Head Office – like In-year monitoring, Revenue
Action Plan and Annexure F’s. Manage, report and monitor the districts’
revenue budgets. Attending Revenue meetings and inform all the institutions
of outcome of these meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Loots, tel. no. (044) 803-2710
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/235 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Health Information Management in a
hospital environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s
Licence. Willingness to be on standby and cover both facilities. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). A strong
sense of confidentiality and trustworthiness. Maintain positive inter-personal
relations with all categories of staff in the execution of his/her supervisory
functions. Knowledge and experience in Departmental Health Information
Systems: Clinicom, Sinjani etc. Excellent monitoring, recordkeeping and
training skills. Ability to work independently, yet as part of a team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Co-ordinate, collect, collate, capture and verify all
relevant health data according to the provincial policies and SOP’s. Conduct
and assist with audits at facility level. Ability to interpret data, analyse data
trends and compile and distribute reports to Hospital Management and Head
Office on a regular basis. Provide training on Health Information Systems in
effective Health Information formulation as well as preparation of PowerPoint
presentations and draw Pivot reports. Assist with data management quality
monitoring. Rendering a support service to the supervisor and staff. Monitor
and evaluate performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Moses, tel. no. (021) 377-4497
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
205
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/236 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12 / Senior Certificate. Experience:
Appropriate experience in information management within a
Hospital/Healthcare environment. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid Code
B drivers licence. Computer literacy and proficiency. Willingness to perform
over-time duties. Willingness to perform standby duties. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of hospital operations, business process
analysis, mapping, modeling and re-engineering. Knowledge of health
information policies and software i.e. CLINICOM, TIER.Net, SINJANI, JAC
Pharmacy, SPV, HECTIS, Business intelligence, Ideal Clinic & Hospital, PHCIS
and DHIS. Microsoft 365 E-mail communication, Excel, Word, PowerPoint and
SharePoint.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide quality training and end -user ICT support
to surrounding primary health care facilities. Ensure that the Hospital
operational IM needs are met. Provide good quality data to the hospital
management and other hospital components. Co-ordinate and supervise
Clerks.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Levy tel. no. (021) 832-5205
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessments.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/237 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate supervisory experience. Appropriate experience in
healthcare support services. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Willingness to work overtime if needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Package. In-depth knowledge of
departmental policies related to GG transport, death administration and
mortuary management. Understanding of the key control policies. The ability
to interpret and analyse management reports as well as excellent report writing
skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Supervise and maintain acceptable standards of
quality of services delivered by the Support Services components (GG
Transport, Porters, Switchboard, Telecommunications, Mortuary, Parking,
Maintenance). Efficient and cost-effective monitoring, evaluation and reporting
of monthly expenditures against allocated budget. Administration of hospital
key control section. Facilitate staff parking process. Administration of hospital
lifts and fire equipment maintenance. Supervise support staff, manage leave
and performance, and ensure compliance with HR policies and disciplinary
procedures, effective and efficient support within Support Services, and ensure
relevant policy implementation and compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Petshwa, tel. no. (021) 918-1227
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are short-listed for interviews will be expected to complete a practical test.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Director Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
206
POST 11/238 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Southern Western Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or Equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate recognizable
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s licence.
Willingness to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to
interpret and apply financial policies, procedures and prescripts. Extensive
knowledge of financial management in the public service, including the
legislative framework. Computer skills and in-depth knowledge of transaction
codes and reports on the following systems: BAS, LOGIS processes.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Identify and correct erroneous expenditure and
address a need for training if/when required. Timeous clearance of Asset and
Liabilities accounts. Effective monitoring of Transfer payments and support to
NPO finance and Programme staff. Ensure effective and efficient compliance
with sundry payment regulations. Provide documented information pertaining
to budget related matters on request from the ASD & SAO.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Mentor, tel. no. (021) 2020 - 978
APPLICATIONS : pplications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/239 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the duties and key responsibility areas
of this post. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of medical
records and archiving procedures as well as medical records management
within a state institution Knowledge of National Archiving Act, Treasury
Regulations and Finance Instructions High level of computer literacy, including
advanced application of MS Access, Excel and GroupWise Extensive
knowledge of the case note tracking module in Clinicom High ethical standards
as incumbent will have access to confidential files. The ability to train people in
medical records procedures and case note tracking module in Clinicom
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Supervise and develop medical records registry
staff Manage the timeous retrieval and filing of case notes within medical
records registry Manage the timeous collection and delivery of case notes
Manage all medical registry operational activities Manage the maintenance of
an effective filing system Analyze the quality and accuracy of case note
tracking system Manage the correction of case note tracking Provide relief
cover for Support Service Managers Ensure compliance with Records
Management policies, procedures and standards Ensure compliance with all
HR policies and timeous submissions Ensure compliance with national core
standards
ENQUIRIES : Mr NR Weeder, tel. no. (021) 404-4056
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/240 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPORT SERVICES
Office of the DDG, Department of Health and Wellness
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate administrative and meeting management experience. Appropriate
administrative experience at executive management level will be an
advantage. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel and work irregular hours. Ability to function
207
independently and in a team. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
computer literacy (Word, Outlook, Powerpoint, Excel, Logis, Permis). Excellent
meeting management and writing skills. Knowledge of SCM and asset control
processes.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Office and administrative support including but not
limited to letter and report-writing, training co-ordination, and database
management. Meeting management, including logistics and minute-writing.
Financial support service including compilation of monthly expenditure,
processing of submissions. Procurement and asset control support service
including ordering of goods and services, processing of requisitions on Logis,
liaison with service providers, and maintaining of asset register and loss control
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Petersen, tel. no. (021) 483-5619
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/241 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL) (WELLNESS
PROGRAM)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Cederberg Support & Outreach (Stationed at Clanwilliam CDC)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse or a 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid driver’s license (Code B/EB Manual) and willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of district health services,
primary health care and district hospital package of services. Good
interpersonal relations, leadership and communication skills (verbal and
written). The ability to interpret, analyse, and implement clinical policies and
guidelines. Knowledge of development of protocols and guidelines, standard
operating procedures. Good typing, report writing and facilitation skills inclusive
of spelling and grammatical errors. Ability to function independently without the
direct supervision of supervisor. Experience and ability to transfer knowledge
and skill in a group as well as individual setting. Must be computer literate (MS
Word, Excel, Power Point).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): External interface management planning,
coordination and implementation of wellness initiatives and interventions with
support from internal stakeholders to implement community orientated primary
care. Intersectoral interface management with strong organisational linkages
and partnerships with outside stakeholders, sector, departments, NGO’s and
community structures. Lead and co-ordinate scheduled wellness activities for
men, women, adolescents and youth with the focus on the 1st 1000 Days
initiative towards building healthy communities. Co-ordinate wellness activities
in the specific communities with the focus on Western Cape Wellness (WoW!)
to support an integrated approach in managing chronic conditions e.g.
Diabetes, Hypertension, TB, HIV and Mental Health. Coordinate and support
collection, collation, interpreting of health data for reporting, monitoring and
evaluation purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Sandt, tel.no. (027) 482-1484
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidate will be subjective to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
208
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/242 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: PRIMARY
HEALTH CARE)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Drakenstein PHC Support and Outreach
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse or 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a
Mobile, when needed within the community (COPC concept). Valid (code
B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy
related to nursing within the public sector and basic computer literacy (MS
Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to communicate, capture patient
information, check results, capture data and do track referrals on the different
electronic systems. Ability to promote quality patient care through the
implementation of protocols, guidelines, and standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of Primary Health Care in accordance with
the guidelines and protocols of the Western Cape. Maintain accurate clinical
records, statistics registers, and referral records. Effective utilization of
Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints. Participation in
Community events and initiating awareness with regards to health-related
issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary
teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor lower
categories of staff and improving quality of health services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms EJ Williams tel. no. (021) 862-4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the selection process. Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates
will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application
for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. -. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Preference will be given to Grade 1 and/or Grade 2
candidates, should they be found appointable.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/243 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST-BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
Overberg District
209
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Hawston Clinic, Overstrand Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a
Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-basic) Institutional or Pharmacist’s Assistant
(Post-basic). Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
SAPC as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) or Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-
Basic) (Institutional). Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
SAPC as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic). Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’
appropriate experience as Pharmacist’s Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13
years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist’s Assistant after registration as a
Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirement of
the job: A valid driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime when necessary.
Relief duties within Sub-district when the need arises. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to
function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department
of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Support with the execution of statutory related laws
and regulations in terms of Medicine and related Substance control act
applicable to provincial health facilities. Accurate medicine supply
management according to the PFMA. Financial management and budget
adherence. Provide pharmaceutical service for managing the burden of
disease. Logistic support to service with CDU operations in Overstrand.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Nel, tel. no. (028) 313 -5746
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of
the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or
before the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)”. Preference will be given to Grade 1 and/or Grade 2
candidates, should they be found appointable.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/244 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (AIRCONDITIONING AND
REFRIGERATION)
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support Services
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in
Airconditioning/Refrigeration. Experience: Grade A: No experience required.
Grade B: At least 18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area
after obtaining the relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence
(Code B/EB) (Manual). Willingness to travel to perform maintenance duties
throughout the Western Cape. Physically fit to perform duties. Work overtime
should the need arise, day or night and perform standby duties and attend to
emergency breakdowns (including after-hour repairs). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Conversant with the
requirements of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act (Act
85) and SANS 10147 and SANS 347. Ability to fault-find and repairs down to
component level.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Service, repair and fault finding of domestic,
commercial and industrial refrigeration units. Service, repair and fault finding
210
of various domestic, commercial and industrial Airconditioning units. Service,
repair, fault finding of Air handling units, chiller plants heat exchangers, heat
pumps. Compile and submit inspection reports as required on all
Airconditioning and refrigeration equipment stipulate on the preventative
maintenance plan of the workshop to comply with SANS regulations. Give in
service training to Handyman, Tradesmen Aid and Interns. Assist with the
executing of all Refrigeration and Airconditioning system projects.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Cleophas, tel. no. (021) 370-1118
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates might be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/245 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Health Information Management in a
hospital environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Access). Maintain positive inter-personal relations with all
categories of staff in the execution of his/her supervisory functions. Excellent
filing, monitoring recordkeeping and training skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs): Collect, collate and analyse information. Daily
capturing of data from all units at facilities. Compilation of daily, weekly and
monthly statistics and abide to due dates. Weekly reporting on facility stats
performance. Completing and reporting of routine monthly report. Effective
recordkeeping of data and ensuring the security and confidentiality of files and
data. Assist staff with basic training when needed. Assist with data
management quality monitoring. Rendering a support service to the supervisor
and staff at both facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Moses, Tel. No. (021) 377-4497
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/246 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Garden Route District
SALARY R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration in the hospital
environment. Appropriate experience in Logis and Clinicom. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to do relief duties in the hospital when
needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer proficiency in Word,
Excel, Access and PowerPoint. Good communication skills (verbal and
written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide secretarial and administrative support to the
departments of Nursing. Maintenance of the attendance registers, leave and
allowances. Handling of all correspondence for the Nursing Manager.
Responsible for handling all administrative tasks related to the Nursing
Department, including tasks related to supply chain management, HR
processes and asset management. Serves as liaison officer between Finance
and HR for these departments. Relieves and provides administrative support
for ward clerks in other units during periods of leave or absence to ensure
continuity of services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu, tel. no. (044) 604 - 6104
211
APPLICATIONS pplications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click
“online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Garden Route District,
for a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/247 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital, Oudtshoorn Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in office administration, financial and
procurement administration. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
relieve other ward/administration clerks of the Nursing Manager. Willingness to
work overtime, flexitime, shifts and weekends when needed. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer skills in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook. Ability to work under pressure and in a team environment. Committed
to maintaining high standards of professional conduct and competency. Good
communication, interpersonal, organising, report-writing, and problem-solving
skills. Ability to handle and secure confidential or sensitive information.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effectively managed the office of the Operational
Manager. Order and control stock and equipment to provide a safe
environment and prevent safety hazards. Ensure effective record keeping and
folder management. Operate and ensure the office equipment is in good
working order, e.g., fax machine, copiers and projectors. Admission, discharge
and transfer of patients on Clinicom.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CB Olivier, tel.no. (044) 203 - 7203
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/248 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (IN AND OUTPATIENTS) (2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Fees/Reception in a hospital environment. Inherent requirement of the job:
Must be prepared to assist in other areas within the hospital. Willingness to
work shifts, public holidays and do relief work. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Knowledge of Hospital Fees
Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS, Clinicom, Finance instructions. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Strong sense of confidentiality.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): In-and out-patient administration functions
according to PGWC policies and procedures. Clinicom, Billing and other
PGWC system computer duties. Patient registration on Clinicom system.
Responsible for handling and receiving of public money and Cash Collection
and Banking of State Money. Admission, transfer and discharge of in-and out-
patients as per PGWC Hospital Fees policies and procedures including
attending to patient queries (verbal and written). Debit charge entries to
invoices as per UPFS and PGWC billing procedures. Folder Management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Levy, tel. no. (021) 832-5205
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
212
POST 11/249 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Healthcare Client Services, Office
Administration, Information Management in a health environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Must be prepared to work 8-hours (i.e. Monday-Friday)
and overtime when required. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness
to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, Outlook and Power Point). The ability to accept accountability and
responsibility with good interpersonal skills. Knowledge and experience in
departmental systems (PHCIS, Sinjani, Ideal Facility, IPWIS) Excellent
communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : key result areas/outputs): Provide comprehensive administrative support to
ensure the efficient operation of the facility. Manage patient administration
processes, including registration, accurate data capture, records management,
and appointment scheduling. Ensure the effective collation, verification,
validation, and reporting of data in line with organisational standards and
reporting requirements. Maintain strict confidentiality of patient information in
compliance with applicable policies and regulations. Demonstrate flexibility and
willingness to work across different health facilities or environments in
response to operational requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Saayman, tel. no. (023) 348-1391
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/250 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (Grade 12 or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in the duties and key responsibility areas
of this post. Inherent requirement of the job: Compelled to work irregular hours
(i.e. 12 hour shifts/nights/weekends/public holidays) independently with no
supervision when required. Be physically fit with an ability to lift loads, be on
your feet and climb ladders all day. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Compelled to work irregular hours (i.e. 12 hour shifts/nights/weekends/public
holidays) independently with no supervision when required. Be physically fit
with an ability to lift loads, be on your feet and climb ladders all day. An in-depth
knowledge of the HIS Clinicom Tracking system, proven knowledge of medical
records processes and procedures. An ability to work independently with
minimum supervision and effectively within a team. An ability to work under
pressure with a high degree of accuracy and care for long periods. Proficiency
in at least two of the three official languages of the Western Cape. Computer
literacy High ethical standards as incumbent will have access to confidential
files. High degree of accuracy and concentration for long periods.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render an effective and efficient after hour medical
records service and folder management. Complete relevant Clinicom Case
Note Tracking system transactions and enquiries. Provide folder management
support to ECM GSH health records digitalization. Create and maintain an
effective filing system. Accurately and timeously file and retrieve all requested
patient folders or case notes. Maintenance of filing system banks and patient
folder covers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NR Weeder, tel. no. (021) 404-4056
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026 17:00 PM
213
POST 11/251 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE (FEES: FOLLOW-UP)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Fees-related environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal abilities. Strong sense of Confidentiality and communication
skills. Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS (Clinicom, AR
Systems), Finance Instructions, PFMA and Treasury Instructions. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Fees revenue and follow-up administration
functions according to PGWC policies and procedures. Collect revenue on
outstanding hospital accounts. Provide Debt Relief. Perform Main Cashier,
general fees administration and account related duties. Liaise with patients, all
categories of staff and other external bodies such as the RAF, WCA, SANDF,
SA Police and the Correctional Services. Assist Foreign, Deceased, MVA
Attorney and Research Trial related queries. File, compile stats and perform
relief duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Albridge, tel. no. (021) 404-2226
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. The pool of applicants will be
considered for other similar posts within Groote Schuur Hospital, for a period
of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core
functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the
advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/252 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE (BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a Finance Department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act. Knowledge of Assets and Liabilities accounts. Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel).
Knowledge of BAS and knowledge of Persal.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Allocate Cash Receipts. Control, manage and clear
various Assets and Liabilities accounts. Render clerical assistance to the
Senior Admin Officer in the Finance Control section. Capture BAS payments,
Journal entries and Debt take-on’s. Filing of documentation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Cloete, tel. no. (021) 404-2253
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within Groote Schuur Hospital, for
a period of three months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/253 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE (FEES/REVENUE) (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
214
a Fees/Revenue health related environment. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willing to work overtime as operationally required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Strong sense of confidentiality. Computer literacy in MS
Word and MS Excel. Good interpersonal and communication skills, ability to
work independently, and as part of a team, and problem-solving with good
organisational skills. Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS, HIS
(CLINiCOM, AR Systems), BAS, Finance Instructions, PFMA and Treasury
Instructions. Official must have a good understanding of the daily running of a
hospital fees and revenue department. Appropriate CLINICOM experience.
Appropriate Accounts Receivable (AR) experience. Appropriate Cashier and
Petty Cash experience, within a hospital setting. Appropriate BAS experience.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Follow-up medical aid and non-medical aid
outstanding invoices in line with departmental Finance Instructions. Payment
allocations on medical aid and debtor payments. General fees administration
and account related duties/enquiries including filing and compiling of stats.
Provide debt relief. Complete BAS transactions including deposits, day ends,
journals and special journals and reconcile with the AR system. Compile
weekly write-off annexures. Provide relief for colleagues as operationally
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Theron, tel. no. (021) 402-6575
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/254 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY (MEDICAL RECORDS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience of Medical Records or Registry services.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts. Must be willing to
rotate and/or relief personnel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer
literacy. Good written and verbal communication skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs): Batching of all incoming episode folders. Issue and
receive folders master file daily. Responsible for archiving all inactive folders.
Ensure that folders are prepared correctly. Ensure that folders are scanned as
per prescripts. Ensure that folders are being index correctly. Daily re-filing of
episodes into yellow folders. File tracking on Hospital Information System and
Trace misfiles. Ensure duplicate folders are being merged correctly. Handle of
Microfilm as per request. Handle telephone enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Xontana, tel. no. (021) 938-4512
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/255 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Senior Certificate/Grade 12 (or
equivalent). Experience: Appropriate experience in Admin Registry Department
and operation a franking machine. Appropriate office administration experience
Appropriate experience in client care. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the Departmental Records Procedural Manual (RPM) Good
planning; organisational; interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
meet deadlines. Ability to compile stats and draft reports. Computer literacy in
(MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Must be willing to undergo development
courses.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Deliver an effective and efficient Admin Registry
Service to the hospital. Opening, closing of lockable mail and files according to
applicable records classification system. Franking mail items, recording
monetary items in remittance book and control registry book on a daily basis
Effective office organisation: collection of post at the Post Office and liaise with
external and internal clients. Ensure timeous submission of statistical data
215
monthly and provide assistance to Supervisor. Hand delivery of opened mail to
the various departments in a hospital environment and returning unclaimed
mail.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Stevens, tel. no. (021) 404-3238
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/256 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (METROPOLE OPERATIONS
MANAGER)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A Matric (Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification. Experience: Appropriate administrative experience in line with the
duties. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code 8 or Code 10 Driver’s
License. Excellent computer literacy in the MS Office package. Ability to travel
between EMS districts and external stakeholders. Willingness to assist with
departmental logistics and event planning. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good interpersonal and organizational skills. Ability to function independently
and within a team environment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render administrative support to Departmental
head and other Management. Efficient Office Management, filing and record
keeping and sound administrative skills. Diary management of Manager.
Arranging of meetings and minute taking. Compiling of documents needed for
the meeting. Effective administrative support to other departments. Ensure
effective and efficient control of equipment in component. Handling of all
telephonic and email enquiries from internal and external stakeholders.
Compiling and typing of submissions and letters. Assist with projects within the
department. Receiving of confidential documents and the distribution thereof.
Screen necessary documents to determine actions or information required.
Procurement of goods and services for the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SC Hartley, tel. no. (021) 932-1966
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/257 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Various Institutions
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate/Grade 12 (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in inpatient admissions and Help Desk
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work 12-hour
shifts (i.e. night duty, weekends, public holidays) and work overtime on short
notice. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Primary Health Care
Information System/Clinicom, Hospital Emergency Centre Tracking
Information System, Tier.net, HECTIS, PHCIS Knowledge of the PFMA and
responsibilities linked to finance management. Knowledge of filing, archiving
and disposal process of records.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Admissions of clients in different departments,
opening new folders, merging of folders, filing, archiving and disposal of
folders. Accomplish key tasks in a competent and acceptable manner, adhere
to sound professional behaviour and dress code. Ensure accurate and daily
capturing on PHCIS/Tier.net/relevant electronics systems. Ensure clients are
admitted according to the appointment system, assist with queue marshalling.
Ensure good client relation strategies to minimize complaints. Ensure effective
and efficient implementation of all applicable policies, procedures and
instructions.
ENQUIRIES : Kraaifontein CHC - Ms S Mgoqi, tel. no. (021) 987-0080 / Bothasig CDC - Ms.
C Lloyed, tel. no. (021) 818-0940 / Parow CDC - Ms. N Mtshengu, tel. no. (021)
810-8130
216
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Admin Clerk: Admissions posts
within (the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services), for a period of 3 months
from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same of the advertised post. Candidates
will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/258 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE (PAYMENTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Creditor and Asset Management and Liability Accounting. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of the Basic Accounting System (BAS), LOGIS,
Assets and Liabilities Suspense Accounts, Public Finance Management Act
and Treasury Regulations and Instructions. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Approval of System requisitions. Processing LOGIS
Creditor Payments within 30 days and in compliance with Financial Prescripts.
Performing Supplier Reconciliations and answer enquiries from
users/suppliers. Assistance with other tasks performed in the office as part of
a team in the section. Ensure safe keeping of documents.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mzukwa, tel. no. (021) 659-5559
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job
title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as
those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/259 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT SERVICES GENERAL CLINICAL
AND MEDICAL ANCILLARY (BED MANAGEMENT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KPA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a patient administration environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, Outlook Express). Knowledge of
CLINICOM. Effective and correct use of telecommunications and office
equipment. Knowledge and awareness of stipulated acts, policies and
procedures. People management skills. Effective interpersonal and
communication skills (telephonic and in-person). Computer literacy- (MS Excel,
Outlook & Internet). The ability to function independently. Knowledge of
statistics and data capturing.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render Administrative support to the Bed Manager.
Capturing of application forms. Statistics monitoring. Liaising with ward staff
regarding admissions/pending admissions and allocations. Liaising with
external stakeholders regarding client’s readiness for transfer to WCRC. Assist
with monitoring in-patient statistics – transfers out, beds on hold, incoming
patients, bed occupancy rates. Maintaining and updating admission waiting
lists, handling general enquiries, ensuring patient confidentiality, assisting with
audits, and supporting supply chain functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Osman-Richards, tel. no. (021) 370-2429
217
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/260 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12/Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in an administrative environment. Inherent
requirement of the job: Required to work over weekends and public holidays.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to maintain good interpersonal skills
Ability to function within a team and work under pressure. Must be competent
in mathematical calculation Computer literate (MS Word & MS Excel)
Conversant with computer procurement programs Syspro or equivalent and
CLINCOM. Ability to work in team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Typing and computer work Personnel assistance
and relief duties in the admin office and other required area of need. Effectively
managing the personnel office within Food Services. Assisting with
coordinating of all training of staff members within the department. Capturing
all stock received onto Syspro. Weekly, monthly and quarterly stock taking.
Relieving of reception area and its duties. Responsible for diary of Head of
Department Minute taking of meetings. Creating confidential documents
Responsible for monthly stats to Head Office Assist in personnel office with
regards to HR. Liaise with various area/department with regards to item out of
stock and other matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Mashele, tel. no. (021) 404-4068
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required. Shortlisted candidates may be subjected
to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/261 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Kraaifontein CHC (1 Post)
Bothasig CDC (1 Post)
Parow CDC (1 Post)
Northern/Tygerberg Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate/Grade 12 (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in inpatient admissions and Help Desk
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work 12-hour
shifts (i.e. night duty, weekends, public holidays) and work overtime on short
notice. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Primary Health Care
Information System/CLINICOM, Hospital Emergency Centre Tracking
Information System, Tier.net, HECTIS, PHCIS Knowledge of the PFMA and
responsibilities linked to finance management. Knowledge of filing, archiving
and disposal process of records.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Admissions of clients in different departments,
opening new folders, merging of folders, filing, archiving and disposal of
folders. Accomplish key tasks in a competent and acceptable manner, adhere
to sound professional behaviour and dress code. Ensure accurate and daily
capturing on PHCIS/Tier.net/relevant electronics systems. Ensure clients are
admitted according to the appointment system, assist with queue marshalling.
Ensure good client relation strategies to minimize complaints. Ensure effective
and efficient implementation of all applicable policies, procedures and
instructions.
ENQUIRIES : Kraaifontein CHC - Ms S Mgoqi, tel. no. (021) 987-0080 / Bothasig CDC - Ms.
C Lloyed, tel. no. (021) 818-0940 / Parow CDC - Ms. N Mtshengu, tel. no. (021)
810-8130
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Admin Clerk: Admissions posts
218
within (the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services), for a period of 3 months
from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent
requirements, and salary level are the same of the advertised post. Candidates
will be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/262 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS (FEES DEPARTMENT) (PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION: INPATIENT AND OUTPATIENT)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and /or Senior
Certificate with experience / competencies that focus on the Key Performance
Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in a Fees-
related environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Hospital
Fees Memorandum Chapter 18, UPFS, HIS (CLINICOM) Finance Instructions,
PFMA and Treasury Instructions. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, Outlook).
Strong sense of confidentiality. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
Good interpersonal abilities.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Patient administration. Collect revenue on
outstanding hospital fees accounts in line with Hospital Policy, Fees
Memorandum Chapter 18 and Finance instruction. Request Medical notes of
patients where it’s necessary. Submission of Medical aid accounts to the Case
Managers. Capturing of all ICD 10 coding and all procedure codes for account.
Filling of all clinical notes. Request folders, prep folders and follow-up on
missing folders. Relieve for reception. Auditing of outpatient’s accounts.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Blankenberg, tel. no. (021) 404-4263.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/263 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS FEES DEPARTMENT (PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and /or Senior
Certificate with experience / competencies that focus on the Key Performance
Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in a Fees-
related environment dealing with CLINICOM Patient Administration. Inherent
requirements of the job: Rotate between departments as per operational
requirements if required Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy.
(Ms Outlook, Ms Excel). Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS,
HIS, CLINICOM, Billing and Finance instructions. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Strong sense of confidentiality.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): CLINICOM patient registration functions
attendances, disposals as per PGWC Hospital Fees policies and procedures
including booking of appointments & patients transport on Healthnet. Attending
to patient queries (both verbal and written). Responsible for handling and
receiving of public money, Cash Collection and Banking of State Money.
Debiting of Charge Entries to invoices as per UPFS and PGWC billing
procedures including ICD10 capturing. Provide administrative and secretarial
support services to the department. Various Reception tasks or duties assigned
to you by immediate supervisor as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Swail, tel. no. (021) 404-2333
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/264 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS (QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER
AND HELP DESK SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
219
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in a health care environment and working
in a patient administration service environment. Appropriate experience in
typing and minute taking. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s license
code B/EB. Willingness to work overtime and on public holidays when required.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Office Suite (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook Access) and appropriate knowledge of MS Teams
and OneDrive. Ability to work under pressure and in a team environment and
must be able to manage difficult clients and conflict professionally. Ability to
communicate effectively with patients, visitors, the general public and line
managers and good general communication, interpersonal, organizational,
report-writing and problem-solving skills. Exercise good judgment in
safeguarding confidential or sensitive information.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective administration support to the quality
assurance management unit and Effective public service delivery: relief
administration in quality assurance management unit, including support to the
Occupational health and IPC units. Effective management of patient redress
request and Effective process management for receipt, completion and return
of all patient complaints, compliments and suggestions in support of the quality
assurance manager. Provide an effective hospital help desk service including
resource management support and effective management of office stocks
supplies and assets. Facilitate allied processes and ccompliance with relevant
legislation, patients’ rights charter, complaints management policies. Effective
patient folder and personal information management in line with the Provincial
Access to Information policies as well as the Protection of Personal Information
Act.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Richardson, tel. no. (021) 918-1903/8
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are short-listed for interviews will be expected to complete a practical test.
The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Director Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of
the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/265 : ADMINISTRATIONN CLERK: REGISTRY
Directorate: People Development
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in registry. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Render an effective filing and records management
services. Handling incoming and outgoing correspondence. Process
documents for archiving and /or disposal. Operate office machine in relation to
the registry functions. Provide registry counter services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Zothani, tel. no (021) 483-4478
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/266 : TAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
220
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, night duty, including weekends, public holidays as well as overtime.
Willingness to rotate to other wards in the hospital and to work at the clinics in
the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal relationships. Self-discipline and motivation.
Ability to interpret basic clinical signs and symptoms. Knowledge of relevant
legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health and Wellness,
Western Cape. Computer literate in Microsoft office programs (Excel and
Word). Ability to work in a team across the service platforms.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care plans. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of
resources. Maintain professional growth /ethical standards and self-
development. Effective recordkeeping. Participate in infection prevention and
control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Laubscher, tel. no. (028) 551-1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/267 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (THEATRE AND CSSD)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, night duty, including weekends, public holidays as well as overtime.
Willingness to rotate to other wards in the hospital and to work at the clinics in
the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal relationships. Self- discipline and motivation.
Ability to work in a team across the service platforms.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care plans. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of
resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Take actions to improve quality of nursing care. Participate in
infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WR Abrahams, tel. no. (044) 203 - 7203
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
221
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Preference will be given to Grade 1
and/or Grade 2 candidates, should they be found appointable.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/268 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (WARD 97)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Staff Nurse. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience:
Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty,
weekends, and public holidays to meet the operational requirements. Must be
prepared to assist in all departments according to operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective communication skills and
interpersonal skills. Knowledge of nursing processes & procedures as outlined
in nursing, health related & public service legislation, regulation & policies.
Function within the team and facilitate on the level of the post.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms KP Tukutezi, tel. no. (021) 370-1274
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/269 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Staff Nurse.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Staff
Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover. Willingness
to rotate to other departments. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work
independently and under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide quality basic nursing care according to
procedures and policy. Provide basic nursing care under the direct and indirect
supervision of the Registered Professional Nurse. Create a safe and
therapeutic environment for patients and the public. Development and
Implementation of basic patient care plans. Maintain professional growth,
ethical standards and self-development. Accurate recordkeeping and effective
utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, tel. no. (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the South African Nursing Council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status).
222
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/270 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SURGERY WARD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the South African Nursing Council as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/ recognisable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/ recognisable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work
shifts during the day and night, weekends and public holidays and overtime
when required by supervisor. Willingness to rotate within different Functional
Business Units. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of SANC
Regulation which prescribe nursing practice. The ability to function
independently in a multi-disciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to
ensure quality nursing care. Good interpersonal and communication skills.
Ability to deal with conflict situations and make sound decisions under
pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Develop and implement basic patient care by
providing individual direct and indirect health care under supervision of the
Professional Nurse. Responsible to provide basic clinical nursing care within
SANC Scope of Practice and competency training as required. Effective health
promotion and information to patient/client and community. Participate in the
effective utilization of physical and financial resources to maintain standards
and ensure quality care. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners, tel. no. (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Preference will be given to Grade 1
and/or Grade 2 candidates, should they be found appointable.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/271 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SURGICAL WARD)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with SANC as an Enrolled Nurse.
Experience: Grade1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, night duty and public holidays. Annual receipt and licence to
practice. Willingness to rotate within the hospital as per operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic communication skills
(both verbal and written. Ability to function effectively as part of a team. Good
human relationships. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and
safe standard.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide basic clinical nursing care under the
supervision of a Professional Nurse. Development and implementation of basic
patient care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Commitment to,
223
and engagement with, the Western Cape DoH & Wellness values, and a people
centred approach to care. Leadership and good governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken, tel. no. (021) 658-5187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/272 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Robertson Mobile
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Prepared to work at
different facilities within the Sub District inclusive a Mobile, hospital and when
needed within the community (COPC concept). Valid (code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook) to be able to communicate, capture
patient information, check results and capture data. Ability to promote quality
patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines, and
standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care plans to all patients. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective
utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Participate in infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. K Fourie tel. no. (023)626-8500
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). “Preference will be given to Grade 1
and/or Grade 2 candidates, should they be found appointable.”
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/273 : STAFF NURSE: GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R 306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Simondium Mobile
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with
224
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to support when
necessary and to work at other clinics in the Sub-district as well as on mobile
clinic. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant
legislation and policy related to nursing within the public sector. Ability to
promote quality patient care through the implementation of protocols,
guidelines, and standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care plans to all patients. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective
utilization of resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development. Participate in infection prevention and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Bosch, tel. no. (021) 862-4520
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). “This concession is only applicable on
health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status). “Preference will be given to Grade 1 and/or
Grade 2 candidates, should they be found appointable.”
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/274 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SURGICAL WARD) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, night duty and public holidays. Annual receipt and licence to practice.
Willingness to rotate within the hospital as per operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic communication skills (both verbal and
written. Ability to function effectively as part of a team. Good human
relationships. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and safe
standard.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical
care). Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical
and financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken, tel. no. (021) 658-5187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/275 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration
225
with SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, night and day shifts, weekends, public holidays and overtime when
necessary. Willingness to work in all wards of the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic
computer skills in MS Word, Excel. Enhance patient care through the
implementation of SOP’s, policies, and guidelines. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Development and implementation of basic patient
care. Provide basic clinical care in a resource constrained PHC setting.
Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Skippers, tel. no. (021) 808-6190
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Stellenbosch Hospital, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.”
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/276 : DENTAL ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Delft PHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification or prescribed in-
service training (with duration of less than 2 years) that allows for the required
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Assistant. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
HPCSA as Dental Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None after obtaining an
appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service training that allows for the
required registration with the HPCSA as Dental Assistant Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining an appropriate
qualification or prescribed in-service training that allows for the required
registration with the HPCSA as Dental Assistant. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work in the geographical PHC facilities within the Northern
Tygerberg substructure, when operationally required. Willingness to work after
hours as well as working overtime and shifts. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel
and Outlook) Good interpersonal skills Ability to use own initiative and work
independently or as a team. Good problem solving and conflict resolution.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): To assist the dentist in rendering an optimal,
effective and efficient oral health service to the public. Assisting with Dental
Procedures in Theatre. Participate in health promotion programs. Effective
management and utilization of stock and medication Ensure infection control
and occupational health and safety standards are maintained. Perform the
necessary administrative duties
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Smith tel. no. (021) 954- 2237
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
226
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).”
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/277 : OPERATOR (PNEUMATIC TUBE STATION) (CENTRAL DISTRIBUTION
OFFICER)
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate operator experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: The ability to do physical tasks such as lifting
of carriers. Render a shift duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive
knowledge of the Tube distribution service Ability to effectively communicate
Basic knowledge of Infection Prevention Control procedures willingness to
work under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Responsible for the operational function of the
Pneumatic Tube System, the dispatch and collection of tubes and telephonic
queries/requests. Responsible for reporting defective specimens and
transporting specimens from various wards to various laboratories.
Responsible for receipt/dispatch of specimens, postal forms, medical reports
and other related documents. Ensure a safe and hygienic work environment
and apply basic Infection prevention control measures as well as collecting and
cleaning of equipment Assist with the collection of DHA1663 from wards and
perform other miscellaneous duties, e.g. messenger duties and assist
undertaker with queries.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Zaba tel. no. (021) 404-5037
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/278 : TELKOM OPERATOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std. 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in operating an
electronic switchboard. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, night shifts, weekends and public holidays. Work overtime when
required by operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
operate an electronic switchboard. Excellent listening skills and telephone
etiquette.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Manage switchboard (incoming and outgoing calls),
handle queries and deliver messages. Handling of all telecommunication
equipment and related tasks. Handling of all alarm systems allocated to
switchboard. Report all faults alarms and telephone lines to the supervisor/
relevant technicians. Support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T. Petshwa, tel. no. (021) 918-1277
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/279 : TELKOM OPERATOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std. 7).Experience: Appropriate experience, in the operating
of a switchboard. Inherent requirement of the job: The ability to work, day and
night shifts, on weekends and public holidays when required. Physically able
227
to hear and speak clearly. Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to
operate switchboard equipment effectively and efficiently. Excellent telephone
etiquette. Able to communicate effectively.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Handling of all incoming and outgoing calls as well
as telephonic enquiries. Ensure effective and efficient communication, both
internally and externally between staff, clientele and the general public.
Processing and distribution of monthly telephone accounts. Keep monthly
statistics. Provide clerical and administrative support to the supervisor. Monthly
update of the telephone extension list. Receive and ensure accurate
distribution of faxes and other messages.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Roberts, tel. no. (021) 402-6461
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The
pool of applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/280 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std. 7) Experience: Appropriate cleaning and household
experience in a hospital environment and in the use of cleaning equipment and
stock. Supervisory experience required. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work shifts, including weekends, night duty, public holidays and
standby duty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of infection
prevention and control, hospitality, safety and hygiene standards. Ability to
work in a team environment, independently and self-driven. Computer literacy
(Microsoft Office).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Responsible for overall control, organising,
performing and coordinating of all tasks related to ensure effective cleaning
and ward food and linen services. Ensure the effective use, maintenance,
ordering, safe-keeping and monitoring of supplies and equipment. Ensure
adherence to safety, Infection Control and Occupational Health policy and
precautions in cleaning, handling of equipment, waste disposal, linen control
and food handling and related training of subordinates. Coordinate and provide
effective training appropriate to service delivery. Provide an effective relief,
coordination and support service to management. Supervise and manage
personnel in their performance, as well as all other human resource related
duties (i.e., staff performance and discipline). Support, guide and direct
personnel under his/her supervision. Maintain a high standard of cleanliness
and hygiene within the hospital ward.
ENQUIRIES : email: sifundwesihle.msali@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/281 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Cape Winelands District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Montagu Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 (Std 7).Experience: Appropriate experience in a supervisory
position. Appropriate administrative experience with regard to Duty Roosters,
Linnen Counting and General Administration. Appropriate cleaning and
household experience in a hospital environment and in the use of cleaning
equipment and stock. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s License.
The ability to work overtime as required by the operations of the workplace.
The ability to do physical tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning and household
228
equipment. Willingness to work in a high occupational health risk environment
with blood, infectious diseases, human and medical waste, contaminated linen
and sharps. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Infection Control
and Provincial Food Service Policy and disciplinary code of conduct. Good
interpersonal relations with supervisor, colleagues. Knowledge of safety and
hygiene standards and inventory/stock control. Computer Literacy in Microsoft
Word and Excel.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Co-ordinate operational household functions. Co-
ordinate operational porters and mortuary functions. Effective co-ordination
and controlling of all linen in hospital. Effective and efficient supervision over
the Hospital Residence. Effective and efficient management of assets and
equipment. Correct utilization of resources. Support human resource functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Cronje tel. no. (023) 626-1294
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisting
candidates may be subjected to a practical and competency test as part of the
interview process. The pool of applications will be considered for vacancies
within the Langeberg Sub District, for a period of three months from the date
of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements,
and salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.”
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/282 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9.Experience: Appropriate cleaning/housekeeping service
experience in a Health related facility. Appropriate supervisory experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Be able to work shifts, including weekends and
Public holidays. Willingness to work overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Maintain positive inter-personal relations with all categories
of staff in execution of his/her supervisory functions. Ability to supervise,
manage, train and discipline Sub-ordinates. Sound supervisory, interpersonal
and organising skills. Decision-making and problem solving skills. Good
counselling skills. Ability to apply Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure cleaning is done in accordance with
prescribed hygienic processes and procedures to ensure a safe environment.
Proper Linen Management by stock-controlling, checking, sorting, ordering and
issuing of linen. Ensure the effective use and maintenance of equipment and
supplies. Perform supervisory functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B. Tyutu, tel. no. (021) 832 5206
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/283 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
West Coast District
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) / grade 9 (Std 7).Experience: Appropriate cleaning experience in a
health care service environment. Appropriate experience in management and
ordering stock. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts and
after hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty) as the operational needs
arise. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound interpersonal, organizing,
numeracy, planning, decision making, problem-solving and supervisory skills.
Knowledge of all cleaning and housekeeping policies, policies, protocols, and
procedures. Good work ethics. Ability to work in a team and independently.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Perform supervisory functions to ensure the
maintenance of a clean, hygienic, and safe environment. Supervise and ensure
the effective use and maintenance of supplies, equipment and linen. Supervise
adherence to food service policies in the ward. Supervise hygiene practices,
229
waste management and occupational health and safety. Effective support to
supervisor. Adheres to the Code of Conduct of public service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Julius, tel. no. (022) 487-9304
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/284 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std7). Experience: Appropriate experience as
cleaner/housekeeping in Health Care Environment essential. Inherent
requirements of the job: Compulsory to work shifts, weekends, public holidays
and in rotate to other departments with the facility. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to perform routine structured tasks, to adhere to
safety standards. Supervisory skills and optimal utilisation of sub-ordinates.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Maintain a high standard of cleanliness and hygiene
within the hospital. Supervisory and performance management of
housekeeping team. Responsible for the provision and serving of meals and
beverages to patients and parents. Responsible for effective communication,
overall control and organising of housekeeping tasks in a Health Facility.
Effective utilization of resources (physical and financial). Control and issue
linen stock on ward level as required. Application of the disciplinary procedures
and conflict resolutions. Assist in performing ad-hoc duties within the hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J van der Riel, tel. no. (021) 799-1270
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.Gov.Za/Health-Jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/285 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Nursing Assistant with the SANC. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, including
weekends, public holidays as well as overtime. To rotate in all the wards in the
hospital when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
recordkeeping procedures. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
Good organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure and as part
of a team. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to work
independently.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living which
include patient hygiene, nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs.
Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of resources.
Maintain professional growth, ethical standards and self-development. Record
keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Nywagi, tel. no. (021) 7991125 / e-mail:
Eric.nywagi@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test and Oral assessment.
Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
230
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/286 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
Female High Care (1 Post)
Medium Secure Ward (1 Post)
Neuro Ward Clinic (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing
Assistant. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after hours,
night duty and weekend cover for nursing. Willingness to work overtime when
needed. Willingness to rotate to other wards and between departments in the
facility when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal,
planning, and organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel &
Outlook). Knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care Act, Nursing
Act and other relevant legislation. Knowledge and experience of Community
Mental Health at Specialised Hospital level.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical
care). To provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of
physical and financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical
standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. S P Mgandela-Dlova, tel. no. (021) 440-3229.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council, are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. -This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/287 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (RELIEF GENERAL WARDS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the South African Nursing Council as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/
recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Nursing
Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant.
Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work shifts during the day and night,
weekends and public holidays and overtime when required by supervisor.
Willingness to rotate within different Functional Business Units. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Sound knowledge of SANC Regulation which prescribe
nursing practice. The ability to function independently in a multi-disciplinary
team and the ability to direct the team to ensure quality nursing care. Good
231
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to deal with conflict situations
and make sound decisions under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical
care). Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical
and financial resources. Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners, tel. no. (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Preference will be given to Grade 1
and/or Grade 2 candidates, should they be found appointable.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/288 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (MEDICINE FEMALE WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : inimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public
holidays to meet the operational requirements. Ability to work under pressure
and in a multi-disciplinary team context. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Provision of Quality Nursing Care to health care users. Appropriate experience
in a Health environment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide basic nursing care. Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Assist patients with activities of daily living which include
Patient Hygiene, Nutritional Status, Mobility and elimination needs. Maintaining
professional growth, Ethical Standards and Self- development. Record
keeping. Support to supervisor and colleagues by team participation. Maintain
a degree of professionalism in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt, tel. no. (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/289 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSE TRAINING RELIEF)
(Contract Till 31 January 2027)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
232
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1:
None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the
job: Will be required to work shifts, night duty, weekends, public holidays as
well as overtime. Willingness to rotate within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions independently and as part
of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication and interpersonal
relationships. Knowledge to relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols
of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical
care). To provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of
physical and financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical
standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CK Korthom, tel. no. (044) 802-4644
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/290 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (POST NATAL AND KMC WARD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willing to rotate in other wards when required. Willingness to work
shifts (day and night), weekends, public holidays and overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good Interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
work independently, but also as a part of a team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living which
includes patient hygiene, nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs.
Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintaining professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Linden-Mars, tel. no. (021) 918-1276
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/291 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (VARIOUS COMPONENTS) (7
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
233
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the South African Nursing Council
(SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and
night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Ability to work under pressure and in a multi-disciplinary team context.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Provision of Quality Nursing Care to health
care users. Appropriate experience in a Health environment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide basic nursing care. Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Assist patients with activities of daily living which include
Patient Hygiene, Nutritional Status, Mobility and elimination needs. Maintaining
professional growth, Ethical Standards and Self- development. Record
keeping. Support to supervisor and colleagues by team participation. Maintain
a degree of professionalism in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt, tel. no. (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). The pool of applicants will be
considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health
Services for a period of 3 months from date of advert provided that the job title,
core functions, inherent requirements and salary level are the same as those
of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/292 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL INPATIENTS)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Caledon Hospital, Theewaterskloof Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : inimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nursing
Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20’ years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, public holidays, after hours, night duty and weekends when required.
Willingness to work overtime when needed. Willingness to rotate to other wards
when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight into
protocols and policies pertaining to nursing practices in a hospital setting.
Knowledge of Infection Prevention Control standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living. Provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial
resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Roman, tel. no. (028) 212-3702
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
234
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/293 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (PAEDIATRIC AND ONCOLOGY,
ICU) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing
Assistant. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC
as Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, night duty and weekend cover.
Willingness to rotate to other departments. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work independently and under pressure. Good communication skills.
DUTIES : key result areas/outputs): Provide quality basic nursing care according to
procedures and policy. Assist patients with activities of daily living which
includes patient hygiene, nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs.
Escort patient to and from x-rays, sonar, etc. Assist professional nurses with
clinical procedures and preparation of patients for diagnostic and surgical
procedures. Accurate recordkeeping and effective utilization of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, Tel no: (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the South African Nursing Council (including individuals who
must apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/294 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (WARD 12)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing
Assistant. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC
as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the
operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all departments
according to operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Effective communication skills and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of nursing
processes & procedures as outlined in Nursing, Health related & Public service
legislation, regulations & policies. Function within the team and facilitate on the
level of the post.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living which
includes patient hygiene, provide nutrition, assist with mobility, and elimination
235
processes. Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Maintain documentation
and communication. Effective utilization of resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Actively participating in in-
service training interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Sr J King, tel. no. (021) 370 -1230
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/295 : NURSING ASSISTANT: GRADE 1 TO 3
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A
minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willing to rotate in other wards when required. Willingness to work
shifts (day and night), weekends, public holidays and overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good Interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
work independently, but also as a part of a team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living which
includes patient hygiene, nutritional status, mobility and elimination needs.
Provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintaining professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development and record keeping.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Linden-Mars, tel. no. (021) 918-1276
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/296 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2 (4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Registration with a
professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, public holidays, after hours, night duty and weekends when required.
Willingness to work overtime if needed. Willingness to rotate to other wards
when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and insight into
protocols and policies pertaining to nursing practices in a hospital setting.
Knowledge of Infection Prevention Control standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist patients with activities of daily living. To
observe patients’ behaviour and actions in wards and in seclusion and provide
elementary clinical nursing care. Maintain documentation and communication.
Effective utilization of resources Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self-development. Actively participating in in-service training
interventions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Fynn-Theys, tel. no. (021) 659-5594
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
236
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”. The pool of applicants will be considered for
other similar vacant posts within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services,
for a period of 3 months from date of advert.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/297 : SECURITY OFFICER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience as a Security
Officer in a health facility. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the Security Board in terms of the Security Industry Regulatory Authority
Act (Act 56 of 2001) PSIRA as a Grade C. Inherent requirement of the job: A
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to work night shifts, public
holidays, weekends, and overtime. Must be computer literate. Candidates must
be registered as a Security Officer Grade B or higher with the Security Board
in terms of the Security Industry Regulatory Authority Act (PSIRA).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication, listening, report-
writing, conflict and group handling skills. Knowledge of security related
prescripts, regulations and procedures.
DUTIES : ey result areas/outputs): Ensure quality prevention measures to make the
workplace a safe and secure environment. Access and egress control of all
areas on the establishment. Ensure effective keys and parking control at the
hospital. Conduct incident investigations and reporting. Provide support to
supervisor by ensuring compliance monitoring of outsourced security officers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A J Basson, tel. no. (021) 918-1976
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/298 : SECURITY OFFICER
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Registration with a professional council: Registration
with the Security Board in terms of the Security Industry Regulatory Authority
Act (Act 56 of 2001) PSIRA as a Grade C. Experience: Appropriate experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts and to be available
on a 24 hour basis. The successful incumbent must be willing to work under
pressure and irregular hours as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication skills. Computer literacy (Ms Office). Knowledge of
prescripts, regulations and procedures. Good interpersonal skills. Be
responsible and diligent.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Protect/guard buildings/key-
points/patients/visitors/personnel as well as the patrolling of fence –off
areas/buildings and the premises. Ensure access/egress control to prevent the
unlawful entry/removal of persons/vehicles/dangerous objects and illegal
substances and the monitoring of surveillance cameras/fire alarm systems.
Control/monitor surveillance cameras to identify/prevent any unlawful entry of
persons/suspicious objects/persons as well as vehicle thefts and forcible entry
of departments/entrances of the hospital. Effective application of service
delivery/efficient support to the supervisor. Effective and efficient use of
equipment to render an efficient security service. Perform regular inspections
and ensure overall compliance with regards contract management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VP September, tel. no. (021) 938-6077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
237
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may also be required to undergo a competency assessment/
practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/299 : STERILISATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION (CSSD)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in the Central
Processing Department (CPD) Sterilization and Decontamination services in a
hospital environment Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, day duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Effective communication
skills. Ability to work in a co-operative way within a team context. Good
interpersonal relations skills. Basic understanding of disinfection,
decontamination and sterilization.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective application of the sterilization process and
techniques, promote/adhere to infection control practices, as well as health and
safety regulations. Decontaminate, pack, and sterilize instruments and linen
supplies. Assist with maintaining, cleaning, and testing sterilization equipment,
washing machines, autoclaves to ensure all equipment is in an optimum
working condition. Using all resources/consumables cost-effectively. Monitor,
control and maintain adequate stock levels, report and assist with
investigations of broken equipment / lost items. Lifting and pushing heavy
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu, tel. no. (044) 604 - 6104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment. The pool of applicants
will be considered for vacancies within the Garden Route District, for a period
of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/300 : STERILISATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION (CSSD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Educational and Training
Certificate (GETC)/Grade 9 (Std7). Experience: Appropriate sterilizing &
disinfection (CSSD) experience in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts including weekends, public
holidays, night duty, overtime as needed. Willingness to rotate and perform
relief duties, according to operational needs. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and skills regarding disinfection, decontamination, and sterilisation.
Knowledge of CSSD procedures and the use of equipment (Gas/ autoclave
etc). Ability to work in a team cooperatively – good interpersonal skills. Good
communicate (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective application of the sterilization process and
techniques, promote/adhere to infection control practices, as well as health and
safety regulations. Decontaminate, pack, and sterilize instruments and linen
supplies. Assist with maintaining, cleaning, and testing of sterilization
equipment, washing machines, Autoclaves to ensure all equipment in an
optimum working condition. Using all resources/consumables cost-effectively.
Monitor, control and maintain adequate stock levels, report and assist with
investigations of broken equipment / lost items. Lifting and pushing heavy
equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Nywagi, tel. no. (021) 799-1125
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
238
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written / practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/301 : TRADESMAN AID
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Cape Winelands TB Centre, Breede Valley Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in tasks performed in an engineering environment.
Inherent requirement of the job: Ability to work standby duties, overtime,
weekends and public holidays when operationally required. The incumbent
must be able to handle heavy objects, heights, narrow spaces and be on their
feet the entire day. Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Able to work independently and as part of a team Good
interpersonal, communication and organisational skills.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Perform various basic maintenance duties in the
workshop, on the grounds and clear areas where work has been carried out.
Assist with repairs and emergency breakdowns (including after- hour repairs).
Control, manage and safekeeping of tools, stock and equipment in the
workshop and carrying, loading and off-loading of tools as well as material.
Identify maintenance and repair needs and ensure that tools and material are
available when needed and cleaned after use. Provide a support service to the
technical staff. Collection, movement and delivery of equipment and furniture.
Clean workshop and drains. Provide Support Service to technical Staff. Provide
a clean hygiene and safe working environment. Perform relief driver duties
when necessary.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Theron, tel. no. (023) 348-1304
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/302 : OPERATOR (REPROGRAPHICS)
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training certificate
(GETC) /Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in Printing and
operation of printing equipment. Appropriate office administration experience
Appropriate experience in client care. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
planning, organisational, interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to
meet deadlines. Ability to compile stats write reports. Computer literacy in (MS
Word, Excel and Outlook).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Deliver an effective and efficient Printing service for
the entire Hospital. Effectively finish off all printing requests. Effective office
organisation and liaise with external and internal clients. Ensure timeous
submission of statistical data, as well as collate and compile a monthly report.
Provide assistance to Supervisor and HOD. Must relieve the Photocopy Centre
and deliver urgent printing requests to remote Departments. Must assist
Medico-Legal with urgent PAIA copies and undergo development courses.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Stevens, tel. no. (021) 404-3238
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be expected to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/303 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Klipfontein / Mitchells Plain Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading and writing skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB
driver’s license. Valid PDP. Sober habits. Responsible for vehicles and
239
maintenance. Prepared to work irregular hours. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good written and verbal communications skills. Knowledge
of transport regulations.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Schedule transport and plan transport routes.
Loading and transporting of goods and staff compliment. Inspection of vehicles.
Timely reporting of minor and major defects. Responsible for the prescribed
records and logs regarding the vehicles and goods handled. Assist the
Transport Officer to maintain the transport fleet in a clean and roadworthy
condition. Prepare reports for the supervisor if and when needed. Compliance
with the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Lewela, tel. no. (021) 370-5074
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post. Candidates will be
subjected to a written/practical, and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/304 : HOUSEHOLD AID (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in waste management, elementary stock control and
cleaning within a hospital environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Render
a shift duty and rotate in different departments. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of routine cleaning processes,
terminal cleaning, and handling cleaning equipment. The ability to do physical
tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Responsible for cleaning duties i.e. sweeping,
dusting, mopping, scrubbing and polishing, deep cleaning of toilets, waste
mangement and maintenance of general neatness and hygiene in the area.
Effectively execute terminal cleaning in isolated areas, ICU, etc. Render
assistance to the supervisor with general housekeeping duties such as control
of cleaning and household equipment, care, and control of linen and Waste
Management. Ensure that cleaning equipment is clean after usage and
securely stored. Effectively use of cleaning agents as well as elementary stock
control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Afrika, tel. no. (021) 404-6262
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/305 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Garden Route District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Alan Blyth Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
household/cleaning experience in a health facility. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work weekends, overtime, public holidays and shift duty.
Willingness to relief in other departments according to operational
requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge of the
correct methods of handling and disposal of refuse/waste products and
adherence to policy and cleaning practices. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Appropriate knowledge of stock, assets, linen and
equipment control. The ability to do work under pressure, perform physical
tasks and operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Deliver an effective cleaning service such as
dusting, washing, scrubbing, polishing, washing and refuse removal. Adhere to
safety measures and ensure adherence to Occupational Health and Safety
policies and Infection Prevention Control measures. Render assistance to the
240
supervisor with general housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and
household equipment, care and control of linen and serving of meals and drinks
to patients. Support to housekeeping supervisor and adhere to policies and
cleaning practices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Adcock, tel. no. (028) 551 - 1010
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written assessment. The pool of applications will be
considered for vacancies within Garden Route District, for a period of three
months from the date of the advert, provided that the job title, core functions,
inherent requirements, and salary level are the same as those of the advertised
post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026 17:00 PM
POST 11/306 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
cleaning experience in a health facility. Inherent requirement of the job:
Required to work in health environment where infectious diseases are treated.
Willingness to work shifts including night duty, overtime, weekends, public
holidays as well as relief in other departments within the hospital.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic knowledge of cleaning procedures
and the use of cleaning equipment (electronic and otherwise). Knowledge of
hygiene and occupational health and safety. Able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Responsible for general cleaning by safe and
effective use of consumables/ resources which complies with hygienic,
occupational health and safety and infection control risk prevention standards.
Renders support services to Household Supervisor/ Manager to contribute to
domestic outcomes. Contributes to effective utilisation and functioning of
equipment. Apply correct methods of handling and disposal of refuse/ waste
products which complies with legal, hygienic, Occupational Health and Safety
and Infection Control standards. Assist with routine stock control and
safekeeping of non-surgical equipment and cleaning consumables Serving of
meals and beverages.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Arendse, email: Valencia.Arendse@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/307 : GROUNDSMAN (GROUNDS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Stikland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate groundsman experience in managing large grounds. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Physically fit and
must be able to perform manual labour. Willingness to work overtime, when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and
communication skills. Knowledge of Occupational Health and Safety. Capacity
to work amongst people with disabilities or special mental healthcare needs.
Ability to use and handle gardening equipment.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Effective maintenance of hospital grounds. To
render general and groundsman services. Perform all activities related to
gardening and grounds, pruning of trees, cleaning of gutters etc. Effective
removal of domestic and medical waste. Effective support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Julie, tel. no (021) 940-4545
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
241
POST 11/308 : CLEANER (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Elsies River CHC and Delft CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading and writing skills. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a Health Facility. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work 12-hour shifts and after hours (night duty,
weekends and public holidays). Willingness to work overtime on short notice
when required. Ability to perform physical tasks e.g. utilization of cleaning
equipment etc. Willingness to work in the geographical PHC facilities within the
Northern Tygerberg substructure, when operationally required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal skills. Appropriate knowledge with the
use of cleaning equipment and cleaning materials.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide a clean and hygienic environment to
prevent the spread of infection. General cleaning and maintenance (dusting,
sweeping, vacuuming, polishing, scrubbing and mopping) Effective utilization
of cleaning materials and equipment Ensure that cleaning equipment is clean
after usage and securely stored. Effectively use cleaning agents and stock as
well as elementary stock control. Responsible for general hygiene and safe
environment in terms of standard and procedures. Optimal support to
supervisor and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Stuurman, tel. no. (021) 954-2237 / Ms J Isaacs, tel. no. (021) 931-0211
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/309 : FOOD SERVICE AID
West Coast District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in line with the Appropriate experience in food services
in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, public holidays, weekends and overtime. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge of production for normal and therapeutic diets
in a foodservice unit. Knowledge of HACCP and safety principles. Ability to do
work of a physical nature which includes lifting heavy objects and be on their
feet the entire day.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Pre-preparation, cooking, plating, distributing and
serving of meals and beverages for the patients in accordance with the PGWC
Food Service Policy. Follow standardized PGWC Recipes and Menus. Assist
in receipt and storage of all provisions in the foodservice unit. Clean and
maintain the kitchen area and maintain equipment and adhere to health and
safety regulations. Communicate with role-players and food service staff and
give feedback regarding problems and recommendations to the Foodservice
supervisor/manager. Render support to supervisor. Dress according to
Departmental specifications and adhere to Hospital PGWC policy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van Breda, tel. no. (022) 487-9223
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
could be required /subjected to a practical exercise.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/310 : PORTER
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Nolungile CDC, Khayelitsha/ Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, including nightshift. Willingness to handle dead bodies/corpses. Must be
of sober habits to ensure safety and reliability on the job. Competencies
242
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure and work in a team. Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to handle heavy objects. Ability
to handle conflict.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Accompany walking patients and transport
sitting/non-walking patients per wheelchair/trolley from reception to the
consulting rooms or from the consulting rooms to the treatment centres. Direct
or accompany visitors to various destinations. Assist with the loading of
patients in/out of ambulances/vehicle and transfer of patients to beds/trolley
and vice versa. Transferring deceased patients to the mortuary and complete
registers. Delivery of medical documentation (patient files, reports, etc.) to the
reception area, including pharmacy. Delivery of medical equipment, suppliers
and other items like blood samples and medical records. Responsible for the
cleanliness, maintenance and reporting of defects of trolleys and wheelchairs.
Effective support to colleagues and supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Cele, tel no. (021) 829-0005
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undertake a pre-entry assessment test/practical assessment
and formal interview.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/311 : PORTER (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate porter experience within a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, including nightshift. Willing
to handle bodies (corpses). Ability to handle heavy objects. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a team. Good interpersonal and
communication skills.
DUTIES : (Key result areas/outputs): Accompany walking patients and transport
sitting/non-walking patients per wheelchair/trolley from reception to the
consulting rooms or from the consulting rooms to the treatment centres. Direct
or accompany visitors to various destinations. Collect and deliver blood,
specimen, samples and deliver to and from wards and blood bank. Assist with
the loading of patients in/out of ambulances/vehicle and transfer of patients to
beds/trolley and vice versa and carry medical and other documentation (patient
files, reports, etc.) to the reception area. Assist with shifting of medical
equipment to and from rooms. Responsible for the cleanliness and reporting of
defects of trolleys and wheelchairs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Rhodes, tel. no. (021) 918-1406
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/312 : PEST CONTROL ASSISTANT
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in Pest Control. Inherent requirement of the job:
Willingness to work shift (e.g. starting time 15h00 until 23h30). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Communication Skills The ability to do physical work and
handle machines/apparatus.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): To render a support service to all departments,
wards, clinics and theatres with regard to pest control to ultimately ensure a
pest free environment Effective Pest Control service within allotted time frames
with/out direct supervision Effective safeguarding of chemical materials To
ensure effective maintenance of equipment and PPE To provide effective
support to the Pest control Supervisor with regards to Pest control and minor
administrative tasks
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Cassiem, tel. no. (021) 404-3237
243
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/313 : GENERAL WORKER STORES
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
experience in a store/warehouse environment. Appropriate experience in
packaging and delivery of stock and stocktaking. Inherent requirement of the
job: Incumbent must be healthy and strong enough to lift heavy objects and be
on their feet the entire day. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to work independently and in a
team.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Deliver stock to wards and departments in the
facility. Ensure issue vouchers are returned to relevant clerk to capture, file and
issue on the Logis system. Assist clerk with receiving, packing, unpacking,
storage and issuing of stock according to standards. Safe keeping of
equipment and stock (consumables and inventory) in the stores as well as
receive goods delivered by the suppliers and check the condition. Assist to
ensure effective Stock Control procedures are maintained and enforced. Assist
clerk with stock take and general duties e.g. keep the store neat, tidy and clean
in order to comply with safety regulations. Perform other duties as assigned by
the supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms H Baker, tel. no. (021) 370-2309
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 11/314 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE) (5
SESSIONS)
(Contract Until 30 April 2029)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Internal Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate and relevant experience in
Internal Medicine as a Medical Specialist. Strong ethical principles and relevant
clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy. Leadership-, interpersonal-
and organisational skills. Ability to work as a specialist physician at a large
Regional Hospital attached to a teaching institution. Ability to work and make
clinical decisions independently. Ability to manage a broad spectrum of medical
cases competently. Proven leadership abilities and experience in supervision
of staff and resources and proven experience in principles of planning,
organizing and implementation. Ability to provide leadership and management
within the Department of Medicine. Excellent individual coping and
interpersonal skills and ability to perform well within a multidisciplinary team
context. Enthusiasm to attend and present training and educational courses to
244
broaden clinical and managerial skills and knowledge. Ability to communicate
effectively. Knowledge and understanding of relevant legislation, hospital
procedures and policies.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide specialist clinical services and
comprehensive medical care to in-patients and out-patients. Financial
management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all people management matters. Create a learning
environment for junior staff and students, both under and postgraduate.
Provide outreach and support services at district level. Coordination of relevant
clinical governance and administrative requirements. Complete and submit
required medical reports and documentation for legal and administrative
purposes. Complete the required CPD activities to maintain registration with
the HPCSA.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Y Vallie, tel. no. (021) 402-6317
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
CLOSING DATE : 13 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/315 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (SESSIONAL) (MEDICINE:
NEUROLOGY) (12 HOURS PER WEEK)
(3 Month Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Neurology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Neurology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Neurology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist in Neurology after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee)
as a Medical Specialist in Neurology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist in Neurology after registration
with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Neurology.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent interpersonal, communication,
teaching and mentoring skills. Excellent knowledge and skills in clinical
neurophysiology (NCS, EMG, EEG, long-term video EEG). Excellent
knowledge and skills in clinical neurology. Practice of clinical neurophysiology
(i.e., nerve conduction studies (NCS), electromyography (EMG)
electroencephalography (EEG), long-term video-EEG monitoring, nerve
conduction studies (NCS), and electromyography (EMG), etc.
DUTIES : (Key result areas/outputs): Patient clinical assessment and management,
supervision of neurology registrars and neurotechnologist in neurophysiology
clinics, as well as oversight of these clinics. Participation in epilepsy surgery
evaluation clinics. Clinical assessment and management of patients, and
supervision of neurology registrars and neurotechnologists at neurophysiology
clinics, as well as oversight and management of these clinics. Interpretation
and reporting NCS and EMG, and teaching neurology registrars these skills.
Reading and reporting electroencephalograms and teaching neurology
registrars these skills. Teaching and supervision of registrars in
neurophysiology.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Bateman, tel. no. (021) 404-3268 or email: kathleen.bateman@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
245
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including) individuals who must apply for change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/316 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE) (4
SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Internal
Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Grade 3: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Internal Medicine. Inherent requirements of the job: A Valid Driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate and relevant experience in
Internal Medicine as a Medical Specialist. Strong ethical principles and relevant
clinical and counselling skills. Computer literacy. Leadership-, interpersonal-
and organisational skills. Ability to work as a specialist physician at a large
Regional Hospital attached to a teaching institution. Ability to work and make
clinical decisions independently. Ability to manage a broad spectrum of medical
cases competently. Proven leadership abilities and experience in supervision
of staff and resources and proven experience in principles of planning,
organizing and implementation. Ability to provide leadership and management
within the Department of Medicine. Excellent individual coping and
interpersonal skills and ability to perform well within a multidisciplinary team
context. Enthusiasm to attend and present training and educational courses to
broaden clinical and managerial skills and knowledge. Ability to communicate
effectively. Knowledge and understanding of relevant legislation, hospital
procedures and policies.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide specialist clinical services and
comprehensive medical care to in-patients and out-patients. Financial
management by effective and efficient use of resources. Adhere to
requirements for all people management matters. Create a learning
environment for junior staff and students, both under and postgraduate.
Provide outreach and support services at district level. Coordination of relevant
clinical governance and administrative requirements. Complete and submit
required medical reports and documentation for legal and administrative
purposes. Complete the required CPD activities to maintain registration with
the HPCSA.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Y Vallie, tel. no. (021) 402-6317
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
246
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 11/317 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL SURGERY) (20
SESSIONS)
(12-Month Contract)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Specialist in General Surgery. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
General Surgery. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as
a Medical Specialist after registration with HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in General Surgery. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
driver's license and willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Clinical experience with General Surgery, including endoscopy and
laparoscopic surgery. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal
relations with staff, patients, and their families. Excellent clinical notes, referral
writing skills and sound verbal and written communication skills as well as
analytical and problem-solving skills. The candidate must have sufficient
clinical and academic skills to handle a large clinical workload.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provision of clinical service delivery at specialist
level across the full spectrum of General Surgery services but with a focus on
the endoscopy service. Duties in theatre may also be needed, performing
surgical procedures. Consultant ward rounds with senior decision making in
respect of patient care, including disposition decisions and oversight and input
into OPD services. Clinical Governance in respect of accurate medical record
keeping, data / trend analysis, contribution to Morbidity & Mortality meetings
and management of complaints and use of existing digital platforms for
referrals and patient related documentation. Teaching, training, research
activities, including supervision & teaching of junior doctors and participation in
the academic program in the hospital. Contribution to improvement of internal
systems within the General Surgery service – both within the hospital and the
Metro East ecosystem and participation in the wider management of the
medical services within the hospital, both clinical and administrative, where
reasonable and feasible.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S Le Roux, tel. no. (021) 918-1990
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 14 April 2026, 17:00PM
247