PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 15 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 08 MAY 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWA-ZULU NATAL: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH:
Kindly note that the following posts that were advertised in Public Service Vacancy
Circular 14 dated 24 April 2026, for Director: Infrastructure Programme Delivery Level 13
Ref No.G29/2026, Director Legal Advisory Services Level 13 Ref No G31/2026, Chief
Director: Health Service Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Level 14 Ref No G32/2026,
Director: Audit and Internal Control: Financial Management Level 13 Ref No. G33/2026,
Director: Engineering and Technical Services Level 13 Ref No G34/2026: Director:
Hospital Services: Hospital Management Services Level 13 Ref No. G35/2026, Director:
ICT Governance and Project Management: Information Technology Level 13 Ref No.
G36/2026: Head Office: Pietermaritzburg the posts have been withdrawn.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 06
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE B 07 - 08
DEFENCE C 09
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR D 10 - 16
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT E 17 - 21
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING F 22 - 31
HOME AFFAIRS G 32 - 39
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT H 40 - 44
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE I 45 - 54
TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION J 55 - 56
TRANSPORT K 57 - 58
TREASURY L 59 - 62
WATER AND SANITATION M 63 - 67
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
GAUTENG N 68 - 70
KWAZULU NATAL O 71 - 79
LIMPOPO P 80 - 94
MPUMALANGA Q 95 - 96
NORTHERN CAPE R 97 - 98
WESTERN CAPE S 99 - 157
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications.
Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/01 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST REF NO: 3/3/1/27/2026
Directorate: International Trade Promotions
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and a 4-year
Bachelor’s degree in Agricultural Economics or a 3-year Bachelor’s degree
plus an Honours degree in Agricultural Economics / Economics. Job Related
Work Experience: Minimum of three (3) years’ supervisory experience in an
agricultural trade / economic environment. Job Related Knowledge:
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Computer literacy. Knowledge
of economics and financial (advanced) analytical techniques. Planning and
3
organizing. Project Management. Job Related Skills: Computer skills.
Statistical Skills. Advanced Negotiation Skills. Advanced Communication Skills.
Advanced Presentation Skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of the SADC FTA and SACU Agreement. Prepare
and attend interdepartmental meetings, SADC Free Trade Area and SACU
trade meetings/negotiations when required. Attend to industry’s trade enquiries
under these Agreements. Draft and present industry (Agricultural Trade Forum)
reports (monthly, quarterly report, briefing papers) where required. Advice on
trade relations with countries in Africa. Monitor bilateral agricultural trade with
African countries. Advice on trade policies, non-tariff barriers and regulations.
Monitor African countries policies through the WTO Trade Policy Reviews.
Participate in SADC-COMESA-EAC Tripartite Free Trade Area (T-FTA)
negotiations / meetings. Consult with industry and provide technical inputs in
the preparation for the Tripartite FTA negotiations / meetings. Prepare and
participate in the interdepartmental meetings, SACU Consultations and
AfCFTA Trade meetings / negotiations when required. Conduct trade analysis
on T-FTA countries. Provide reports to management and industry (ATF) where
required. Participate in African Continental FTA negotiations. Consult with
industry and provide technical inputs in the preparation for the African
Continental FTA negotiations when required. Prepare and participate in the
interdepartmental, SACU consultations and AfCFTA trade meetings /
negotiations when required. Conduct trade analysis on AfCFTA countries.
Represent the DoA and the sector in the National Implementation Committee
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 319 8189
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SAErecruit27@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Coloured Males and White Females and Persons with
disability.
POST 15/02 : INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (ICT) SYSTEMS
ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: 3/3/1/30/2026
Directorate: ICT Service Delivery Operations
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a National
Diploma in Information Technology / Computer Science. Minimum of 3 years
Microsoft server environment experience. Job related knowledge: Knowledge
of server operating systems. Knowledge of hardware and software
troubleshooting. Understanding of Information Technology Infrastructure. Job
related skills. Communication skills. Good collaborative skills and ability to work
well within a team. Attention to details. Drive and Critical thinking. Technical
Competence. A Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Maintain Hardware and Software Infrastructure: Provisioning of ICT
infrastructure and infrastructure support. Server Maintenance. User account
management. Ensure ICT governance and risk management. Exchange
management. Research Future Trends and Technologies: Testing new
hardware and software in the market. Research new trends in the market.
Make recommendations and advice on new trends/ technologies. Research AI,
Robotics, Machine Learning, internet of things etc. Contribution in Projects:
Rollout of special projects. Investigate and plan software and hardware
projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Nemutandani Tel No: (012) 319 6154/6195
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ICTSArecruit30@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Coloured Females and Persons with disability.
POST 15/03 : BUSINESS DEVELOPER REF NO: 3/3/1/29/2026
Directorate: Small Businesses Development
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and a Degree in
Agricultural Economics / Economics / Business Management / Financial
Management. Job Related Work Experience: Minimum of two (2) years’
experience in agricultural economics environment with exposure to the
agricultural business environment. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of
4
BBBEE Act and related legislation. Knowledge of National Integrated Small
Enterprise Development (NISED) and related legislation. National Small
Business Amendment Act. Companies Act. Cooperative Act. Public Finance
Management Act. Batho Pele Principles. Job Related Skills: Computer skills
(MS Office). Team Leadership, Creativity. High level of integrity. Strong
leadership and supervisory skills. Analytical skills. Strong work ethics. Good
interpersonal skills. Negotiation Skills. Ability to work independently and under
pressure. Planning and execution skills. Management of human resources.
Acceptance of responsibility. Extensive travel. Work extended hours. A valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Provide inputs in drafting policy, frameworks and guidelines for developing
SMMEs/Cooperatives in the DoA sector. Conduct research and analysis.
Undertake research on national, sectoral, and international best practices to
inform the development of policies, frameworks, and guidelines for supporting
SMMEs and cooperatives. Participate in stakeholder consultations. Take part
in consultation processes, workshops, and technical engagements to provide
structured inputs and feedback on draft policies and frameworks. Contribute to
policy and framework development. Provide written and technical inputs into
the drafting of policies, frameworks, and operational guidelines to ensure
alignment with departmental mandates and strategic priorities. Monitor and
report in implementation progress. Prepare and submit progress reports on the
implementation of approved policies, frameworks, and guidelines, outlining
achievements, gaps, challenges, and recommendations for improvement.
Coordinate and harmonize SMME support interventions in DoA. Ensure
internal stakeholders for consultation and alignment. Initiate communication
with relevant branches and directorates within the Department of Agriculture to
schedule consultations aimed at securing buy-in, clarifying roles, and gathering
inputs on the coordination and harmonization approach. Participate in internal
engagement platforms. Attend scheduled meetings, working sessions, and
technical forums to present and discuss the coordination concept, gather
feedback, and ensure shared understanding across departmental units.
Conduct information gathering and analysis. Collect and review existing
departmental documents, initiatives, performance reports, and operational
tools to understand current SMME support approaches, identify overlaps, and
highlight opportunities for improved and coordination. Align policy and strategic
instruments. Review and align financial and non-financial policies, guidelines,
and strategies related to SMME support to ensure consistency, reduce
fragmentation, and promote standardized support delivery across
departmental branches. Contribute to the development of real-time data
management system for SMMEs. Facilitate stakeholder engagement on data
system requirements. Organise and coordinate engagements with relevant
stakeholders to understand their existing data management systems, including
processes for data collection, storage, analysis and reporting. Evaluate existing
information and define system requirements. Assess and analyse information
gathered from various directorates to determine functional, technical and
business requirements for a real-time agricultural SMME data management
system. Engagement with the Directorate ICT for technical guidance.
Participate in consultations with the Directorate for ICT to obtain guidance on
system architecture, feasibility, standards and integration requirements.
Contribute to the business case development. Provide inputs into the design
and drafting of a business case that justifies the implementation of a real-time
data management system for agricultural SMMEs, including expected benefits,
costs, risks, and resource needs. Advocate for the development of SMMEs and
Cooperatives in the DoA. Participate in strategic engagements. Attend
meetings, conferences, and stakeholder engagements to advocate for and
gather information on SMME and cooperatives development priorities,
challenges, and opportunities. Disseminate information internally. Share
relevant insights, updates and information with colleagues across the
Department to strengthen awareness and promote coordinated support for
SMMEs and cooperatives. Support capacity building initiatives. Provide
capacity-building support to SMMEs and cooperatives, including facilitation of
business plan development training and relevant advisory services when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Smit Tel No: (012) 319 8158
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
BDrecruit29@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Females and Persons with disability.
5
POST 15/04 : HANDYMAN REF NO: 3/3/1/31/2026
Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Grade 9 or NQF level 1 qualification. 1-2
years relevant experience in farm and or fence making work. Competency
Certificate in fence making is recommended. Job Related Knowledge:
knowledge of Public Service and Departmental prescripts/ policies. General
farm work. Using hand tools. Cleaning of buildings. Cleaning of equipment and
tools. Harvesting of lucerne. Storing of feed. Erecting of fences. Job Related
Skills: Good communication skills. Planning. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render maintenance of office buildings: Conduct regular building and
equipment inspections. Report breakage. Defects, problems etc. Report and/
or attend to electrical, plumbing, carpentry, renovations, painting and
replacement problems. Render maintenance of farm equipment and
infrastructure: Conduct repair works to fences, water systems, furniture,
equipment and tools. Inspect fencing and repair as required. Safekeeping of
maintenance tools and supplies. Detect and repair leaks and broken pipes as
required. Construct and maintain farm structures as needed (e.g. hail shelter,
tractor shade ports, frames to support trials, etc). Conduct routine farm work:
Install irrigation pipes and pumps. Dig trenches. Combating veldt fires. Perform
elementary agricultural tasks like weeding, irrigation and sowing. Maintain
gardens, recreation grounds, paddocks and irrigational lands. Assist with
general maintenance: Removal and dumping of refuse. Cleaning of gutters.
Sweeping of roads and parking areas. Washing and cleaning of official fleet.
Cleaning of buildings and cleaning of building and machines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Molekwa Tel No: (049) 802 6633
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
HMrecruit31@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Africans and Persons with disability.
POST 15/05 : HOUSEHOLD AID REF NO 3/3/1/32/2026 (X4 POSTS)
Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Eastern Cape: Middelburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of Grade 10 or ABET qualification.
Appropriate experience in cleaning up services. Job Related Knowledge: Food
Service Aid. Basic Hygiene. Cleaning experience. Job Related Skills: Verbal
and written communication skills. Professional personal presentation.
Confidentiality. Ability to work under pressure. Problem analysis and decision
making. Confident and independent. Ability to work long hours. Confidentiality.
Integrity and honesty. Friendly and adaptability. Accuracy.
DUTIES : Maintaining general hygienic environment: Follow hygiene and safety
directives in the food service unit. Report broken apparatus and equipment.
Maintain safety measures for apparatus and equipment. Ensure compliance to
Occupational Health and safety Act. Assist in providing a safe work
environment by sweeping or mopping as needed. Provide food service aid:
Wash dishes, microwaves and refrigerators. Clean equipment used in the
preparation of food. Maintain work area and equipment in a clean, hygienic,
and orderly condition. Collect, deliver, transport, and place waste in a bin as
needed. Render food service in the boardroom: Prepare and arrange food and
water to employees during meetings for the boardroom. Distribute food and
water to employees during meetings for the boardroom. Manage boardroom
utensils and any other equipment. Retrieve eaten food from the boardroom.
Set up, deliver and serve at special catering functions during meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabo Molekwa Tel No: (049) 802 6633
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
HArecruit32@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: Africans and Persons with disability.
6
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of this post. Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
cd_cwp@ntirho.co.za For application enquiries contact: Vanessa Cox Tel No:
(010) 593 1998
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. A recommended CV template is available on the
department’s website on www.cogta.gov.za, click on the jobs tab. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified documents/ copies
on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Core competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership.
People management and empowerment. Advanced programme and project
management. Change management. Financial management. Process
Competencies: Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Advanced communication skills (written and verbal). The successful
candidate will be appointed to positive results of a pre-employment screening
process which includes criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of
educational qualification certificates. The successful candidate will be
appointed to probation for a period of 12 months and will be required to sign a
performance agreement. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s
responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in support of the
application are submitted by the due date. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to make
an appointment. The requirements for appointment at Senior Management
Service level include the successful completion of Senior Management Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, which
can be accessed using the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Candidates must provide proof of
successful completion of the course prior to appointment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/06 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CWP IMPLEMENTATION (EC, WC AND NC) REF NO:
CD_CWP
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
The package includes a basic salary (70% of package) and a flexible portion
that may be structured in terms of the applicable guidelines.
CENTRE : Pretoria
7
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Social Sciences / Community Development /
Public Administration or equivalent qualification at NQF 7 as recognised by
SAQA. 5 years’ experience at a senior managerial level. Proficiency in MS
Word. Other: The Nyukela Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme is to be
completed before appointment to the post. A valid driver’s license. Intensive
travelling. Additional Requirements (Advantage): MS PowerPoint and MS
Project. Core Competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership. People
Management and Empowerment. Programme and project management.
Financial management. Change management. Knowledge management.
Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation
and customer focus. Communication (verbal and written). Technical
Competencies: Extensive Knowledge in: Community Development
Approaches. Cooperative Governance. Poverty eradication and job creation.
Public-private partnerships. Stakeholder relations. Due diligence. Resource
mobilisation.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Facilitate the
implementation of CWP in allocated provinces. Oversee and coordinate the
implementation of CWP processes, policies, frameworks, norms and standards
and maintenance of work opportunities. Oversee the monitoring and reporting
to ensure effective contract management and compliance with CWP norms and
standards. Oversee the establishment and functionality of CWP provincial
stakeholder coordination processes, as well as local stakeholder structures.
Coordinate the establishment, facilitation and implementation of smart
partnerships to enhance the impact of CWP.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Van Wyk at 064 850 8845
8
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of these
posts with candidates whose transfer/promotion/ appointment will promote representivity in line with the
numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, SA Air Force College, Private Bag X1008, Thaba
Tshwane, 0143 or email to: saafcolhr@dod.mil.za or may be hand delivered at
Abraham Kriel Road, Thaba Tshwane, Centurion
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026 at 16:00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must
be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score
both technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process.
Applicants who do not receive confirmation or feedback within 3 (three) months
after the closing date, please consider your application unsuccessful. Due to
the large volume of responses anticipated, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged, and correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. For more information on the job description(s) please contact the person
indicated in the post details. Successful candidates will be appointed on
probation for the period of twelve (12) months in terms of the prescribed rules.
OTHER POST
POST 15/07 : PROVISIONING ADMIN CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO:
SAAFCOL/14/15/26/01
Re-advertised. Applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-apply.
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : SA Air Force College, Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special requirements
(Skills needed): Computer literate, organizing skills, good interpersonal
relationships, effective verbal and written communication, Full knowledge of
the utilisation of MS software packages.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support duties, Capturing of personnel leave and
Subsistence & Travelling, capturing of personnel performance assessments,
compiling database for skills development programmes for personnel and
capturing reports, record assets of the unit and keep them updated by maintain
the asset register and attend to telephone enquiries and maintain proper filling
of documents in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Maj K.L. Bosch Tel No: (012) 351 5045/5172
9
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one attachment. Zipped, IMG and JPEG
documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the reference
number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email
address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will be
disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act(POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
ERRATUM: Kindly take note that the post of Deputy Director: Human Resource
Operations for Supported Employment Enterprises, Silverton Pretoria with Ref
No: HR4/25/04/07 advertised on Public Service Vacancy Circular 11 dated 27
March 2026 with closing date of 14 April 2026 is withdrawn. For inquiries,
please contact Ms. A Pretorius Tel No: (012) 843 7300
10
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/08 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE OPERATIONS REF NO:
HR4/26/05/01/SEE
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all- inclusive)
CENTRE : Supported Employment Enterprises, Silverton, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 6 as recognised by the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA) in Human Resource Management/Labour Relations/Public
Management/Public Administration. Valid driver’s licence. Five (5) years’
experience of which two (2) years middle management experience (ASD Level)
and three (3) years Functional experience in Human Resource
Management/Labour Relations environment. Knowledge: Recruitment and
Selection, Human Resource Administration, Relevant Labour Relation
Legislations, Public Service Regulation Act, Basic Condition of Employment
Act, Departmental policies and procedures, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Project Management, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Management,
Interpersonal, Communication (verbal and written), Computer Literacy,
Negotiation, Patience and empathy, Presentation.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of recruitment and selection policy within the
Supported Employment Enterprises. Manage and administer service benefits
within the Supported Employment Enterprises. Ensure Sound Employee
Relations in the Supported Employment Enterprises. Manage the resources
within the HR unit of the Supported Employment Enterprises.
ENQUIRIES : Ms WK Tselane Tel No: (012) 843 7300
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria. For Online
Applications: Jobs-SEE34@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to Persons with Disabilities, African Females, Coloured
Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, Indian Females, White Females.
POST 15/09 : PRINCIPAL INSPECTOR: EMPLOYMENT EQUITY REF NO: HR 4/4/7/64
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Undergraduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Labour Relations Management/ BCom Law/ LLB/ Labour Law. Valid
driver’s licence. Four (4) years relevant functional experience in compliance/
legal or Employment Equity inspections. Knowledge: Departmental policies
and procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Public Service Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act
(COIDA). Skills: Planning and Organising, Computer literacy, Communication,
Problem Solving, Interviewing, Listening and observation, Presentation,
Research, Project management, Analytical and Innovative.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of programmes, work plans and policies for
Employment Equity Act and Regulations. Conduct investigations and
inspections into complex cases that have not been resolved or referred to
ensure compliance with Employment Equity Act and Regulations. Monitor,
evaluate and report on the impact of Employment Equity Act programmes.
Provide technical advice on the sector specific to Employment Equity Act
matters. Manage the resources in the Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. ABM Mampuru Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Provincial Chief Inspector: Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or hand
delivery at Labour Building, Corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue, Emalahleni.
Email: Jobs-MPU-PP-EEA@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Indian Males, Indian Females, White Males, White Females and Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 15/10 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE OPERATIONS REF
NO: HR4/4/7/65
SALARY : R413 920 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : A three (3) years relevant tertiary qualification in Human Resources
Management. One (1) to two (2) years supervisory experience doing Human
Resources Management Services. Knowledge: All labour legislations,
11
Departmental policies and procedures, HR related systems, Public Service Act,
Batho Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations. Skills: Communication,
Presentation, Conflict management, Analytical, Report writing, Computer
literacy, Planning and organising, Supervisory, Time Management.
DUTIES : Monitor the Recruitment and Selection process. Facilitate the processing and
approve service benefits. Provide and monitor termination of service at the
province. Monitor establishment and the implementation of HR policies.
Monitor the payment of salaries.
ENQUIRIES : Rev MG Sibanyoni Tel No: (013) 655 8700
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X7263, Emalahleni, 1035 or
hand delivery at Labour building, corner Hofmeyer and Beatty Avenue,
Emalahleni. Email: Jobs-MP-CPO@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Coloured Males, Coloured Females and Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
POST 15/11 : CHIEF PERSONNEL OFFICER: EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS REF NO:
HR4/4/1/181 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: East London, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year National Diploma (NQF 6)/ Under graduate Bachelor Degree
(NQF 7) in Human Resources Management/ Employment Relations/Labour
Law/ Bachelor of Law (LLB). Valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Public Service
Commission’s rules for dealing with complaints and grievances, Public Service
Co-ordinating Bargaining Council’s Resolutions, Departmental policies and
procedures, Interpretation of case law and trends in Labour Law, Planning and
organising, Research/ analysing, Batho Pele Principles, Public Finance
Management Act, Employment Equity Act, Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Labour relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Skills:
Problem solving, Negotiation, Presentation, Good Communication skills (oral
and written), Research, Analytical, Report writing, Conflict, Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Conduct and analyse all grievances and complaints received from employees
in the province. Draft charges and finalise all misconduct cases in the Province.
Represent the Department in conditions referred to the General Public Service
Sectoral Bargaining Council (GPSSBC) and the Commission for Conciliation,
Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). Conduct advocacy sessions on
employment related matters to the province. Provide administrative support
services in the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Siyabulela Joko Tel No: (043) 701 3030
APPLICATIONS : Acting Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005, East London,
5201, Hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street, East London. Email Jobs-
EC10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to White Males, White Females, Coloured Males, Coloured
Females, Indian Males, Indian Females.
POST 15/12 : RECORDS ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: HR4/4/4/52
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/Senior Certificate or equivalent. Knowledge: National Archives Act,
Batho Pele Principles, Records Management, Departmental Policies and
Procedures. Skills: Communication, Listening, Computer Literacy, Planning
and Organizing.
DUTIES : Maintain the filling system as per the directives of the archives and records
management prescripts. Sort and prepare documents for disposal process as
in line with the relevant prescripts. Perform administrative duties within the
Section as and when the need arises.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Mafu Tel No: (043) 701 3039
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X9005, East London, 5201
or hand deliver No.3 Hill Street, East London or email: Jobs-
EC9@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian Males, Indian Females, White
Males, White Females and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 15/13 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: QAULITY ASSURANCE (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R280 278 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Joubertina Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/9/17 (X1 Post)
12
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Louterwater Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/9/18 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Misgund Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/9/19 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Hankey Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/9/20 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Patensie Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/9/21 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Jeffreysbay Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/9/22 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kariega but stationed at Humansdop Satellite Office Ref No:
HR/4/4/9/23 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge:
Unemployment Insurance Act and Regulations, Unemployment Insurance
Contributions Act, Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Protection of
Personal Information Act (POPIA), Department of Labour and UIF Policies and
Procedures, Treasury Regulations, UIF’s Vision, Mission and Values,
Departmental Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, Batho Pele Principles.
Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette, Interviewing, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Interpretation (ability to
interpret UI Act and Contribution Act), Conflict Management, Time
Management, Customer Relations, Analytical and On job training (operational
systems).
DUTIES : Provide screening services. Process applications for UIF Benefits. Register
payment continuation forms. Provide administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Koba Tel No: (041) 995 7047
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, PO Box 562, Uitenhage, 6230.
Hand deliver at 15A Chase Street, Kariega, 6230. Email: Jobs-
ECUHG@labour.gov.za
NOTE : White Males, White Females, Coloured Males, Coloured Females, Indian
Males, Indian Females are encouraged to apply.
POST 15/14 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/4/06 (X1 Post)
Prospecton Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/4/07 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Batho Pele Principles,
Departmental policies and procedures, Treasury regulations, Public Service
Act and Regulations. Skills: Verbal and written communication, Interpersonal
relations, Problem solving, Planning and organizing, Analytical, Computer
literacy, Client focused, Sense of responsibility, Assertiveness, Honest, Ability
to work under pressure.
DUTIES : To render Supply Chain Management Function in a Labour Centre. Provide a
Finance and office management service to the Labour Centre. Render a
Human Resource management. Responsible for training and performance
activities in a Labour Centre. Responsible for the records management in the
Labour Centre.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M September Tel No: (033) 341 5300 (PMB)
Mr K Naidoo Tel No: (031) 065 1000 (Prospecton)
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X9048,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand deliver at 370 Langalibalele Street,
Pietermaritzburg. For online Applications Email: Jobs-KZN21@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Prospecton Labour Centre, PO Box 343, Umbongothwini
4120 Or hand deliver at N 3 Prospecton Place, Prospecton. For online
applications email to: Jobs-KZN24@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males and White Males are encouraged
to apply.
POST 15/15 : ACCOUNTS AND BOOKING CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/4/03
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with passed Commercial Subjects (Business Management,
Economics and Accounting) or with equivalent Certificate. Knowledge: Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA), Departmental policies and procedures,
Project management, Intermediate Human Resource Development, General
management, Public Service Regulations. Skills: Facilitation, Computer
13
Literacy, Presentation, Innovative, Communication (verbal & written), People
Management, Assertiveness, Attention to detail, Client focus, Punctuality, Self-
motivated, Initiative, Disciplined.
DUTIES : Provide booking services of cars in the province. Attain information to prepare
payment for service provider. Acquire information on payment of fines.
Disseminate information to the relevant stakeholder e.g. newly developed
policies, new act pertain transport etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mwelase Tel No: (031) 366 2316
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Provincial Operations: PO BOX 940, Durban, 4000 or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online applications email to:
Jobs-KZN14@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males and White Males are encouraged
to apply.
POST 15/16 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK REF NO: HR4/4/4/04
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KZN
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with passed Commercial Subjects (Business Management,
Economics and Accounting) or with equivalent Certificate. Knowledge: Public
Financial Management Act (PFMA), Departmental policies and procedures,
Supply Chain Framework, LOGIS System, Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act, Skills: Client orientation and customer focus, Computer
Literacy, Presentation, Communication (verbal & written), Analytical,
Numeracy.
DUTIES : Provide contract and tender management support to be in line with developed
relevant prescripts. Administer open and close tender processes in compliance
with SCM policies and Treasury Regulations. Procure goods and services in
line with relevant prescripts in the province. Provide inventory management
support to ensure effectiveness and efficient in the province. Render assets
management support to comply with Departmental policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mwelase Tel No: (031) 366 2316
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Provincial Operations: PO Box 940, Durban, 4000 or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online applications email to:
Jobs-KZN14@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males and White Males are encouraged
to apply.
POST 15/17 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: MANAGEMENT OF SUPPORT SERVICES REF
NO: HR4/4/4/50 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Labour Centre: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. Valid driver’s licence will be an added
advantage Knowledge: Departmental Policies, Procedures and guidelines,
Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment Services Act, Public Service
Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Computer literacy,
Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening, Telephone
etiquette, Interviewing Skills, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work-seekers on ESSA. Render registration
service of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mshumpela Tel No: (041) 506 5002
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X6045, Port Elizabeth,
6000 or hand deliver at VSN Building 116-134, Govan Mbeki Avenue,
Gqeberha or email to Jobs-ECPLZ@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : African Male, Coloured Male, Coloured Female, Indian Males, Indian Females,
White Males and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 15/18 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: COMMUNICATION REF NO: HR 4/4/10/01
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office East London, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. Knowledge: Basic knowledge of all
labour legislation, Departmental Policies and Procedures, Batho Pele
principles, Basic understanding of how the media operates Skills:
14
Communication, Presentation, Interpersonal, Event coordination, Writing,
Planning and organising, Computer literacy, Ability to operate fax machine and
a photocopier, Data capturing.
DUTIES : Provide media liaison support service in the province. (Daily). Assist with
Coordination of stakeholder and public relations to enhance advocacy
initiatives by Bus and/or LCs. Identify Marketing and Advertising opportunities
for the Services of the DoL in the province. Implement internal communication
services. Ensure efficient, effective and accurate administration support
service to the office of the PCO.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. MM Nohesi Tel No: (043) 701 3029
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations, Private Bag X9005, East London, 5201,
Hand deliver at No.3 Hill Street East London. Email: Jobs-
EC10@labour.gov.za
NOTE : Priority will be given to African Males, Indian Female and White Male.
POST 15/19 : TELECOM OPERATOR REF NO: HR4/4/4/53
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Labour Centre, Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ National Senior Certificate. Valid driver’s licence will be an added
advantage Knowledge: Departmental Policies, Procedures and guidelines,
Labour Legislation and Regulations, Employment Services Act, Public Service
Act and Regulations, Batho Pele principles. Skills: Computer literacy,
Communication, Interpersonal, Problem Solving, Listening, Telephone
etiquette, Interviewing Skills, Ability to interpret legislation.
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient telephonic service. Give assistance to MSS
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mshumpela Tel No: (041) 506 5002
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X6045, Port Elizabeth,
6000 or hand deliver at VSN Building 116-134, Govan Mbeki Avenue,
Gqeberha or email to Jobs-ECPLZ@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : African Male, Coloured Male, Coloured Female, Indian Males, Indian Females,
White Males and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 15/20 : SECURITY OFFICER REF NO: HR4/4/4/51 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Gqeberha Labour Centre: Eastern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 / Senior Certificate and Grade C Security Certificate (PSIRA). Twelve
(12) months security experience. Knowledge: Access to Public premises and
vehicles Act, Evacuation procedures, Minimum Information Security
Standards, Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority Procedures, Batho
Pele Principles, Public Service Regulations Act, Departmental Policies and
Procedures. Skills: Verbal and written communication, Interpersonal Relations,
Problem solving, Listening, Computer literacy, Planning and organizing,
Analytical.
DUTIES : Control access in and out if the Labour Centre and a provincial Office. Secure
the flow of information and assets within the Labour Centre and a Provincial
Office. Conduct security patrols of the building and offices to ensure safety of
employees and clients. Conduct internal investigations and enforce security
rules and regulations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Mshumpela Tel No: (041) 506 5002
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations: Private Bag X6045, Port Elizabeth,
6000 or hand deliver at VSN Building 116-134, Govan Mbeki Avenue,
Gqeberha or email to Jobs-ECPLZ@LABOUR.gov.za
NOTE : African Male, Coloured Male, Coloured Female, Indian Males, Indian Females,
White Males and Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 15/21 : OFFICE AID (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office: KZN Ref No: HR4/4/4/05 (X1 Post)
Prospecton Labour Centre Ref No: HR4/4/4/10 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 10. Knowledge: Office Practice, Catering, Cleaning Practices. Skills:
Interpersonal relations, verbal communications, Listening.
DUTIES : Ensure a clean office environment at all times. Provide food service’s aid.
Assist in distribution stock. Assist with messenger functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mwelase Tel No: (031) 366 2316 (KZN)
Mr K Naidoo Tel No: (031) 065 1000 (Prospecton)
15
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Provincial Operations: PO BOX 940, Durban, 4000 or hand
deliver at 267 Anton Lembede Street, Durban. For online applications email to:
Jobs-KZN14@Labour.gov.za
Deputy Director: Prospecton Labour Centre, PO Box 343, Umbongothwini
4120 Or hand deliver at N 3 Prospecton Place, Prospecton. For online
applications email to: Jobs-KZN24@Labour.gov.za
NOTE : African Males, Coloured Males, Indian Males and White Males are encouraged
to apply.
POST 15/22 : RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON REF NO: HR5/1/2/3/01
(3 Years Fixed Terms Contract)
SALARY : Members will be remunerated according to rates approved by the Department
of Employment and Labour
CENTRE : Compensation Fund, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 6) in Accounting / Risk Management
or Auditing, with post-graduate qualifications or certification in similar fields,
such as CRMA/ CIA /CA (SA)/CISA. Affiliation to a professionally recognized
body such as IRMSA / IIA / ISACA / SAICA or any risk management/internal
audit /accounting related professional affiliation. 10 years or more leadership
and experience in serving as chairperson of Risk/Audit Committees of large
public or private sector institutions. Knowledge: Applicants must have
extensive knowledge and experience in Labour, Insurance, Risk Management,
Governance, Internal and External Auditing, Anti-Fraud and Corruption,
Compliance Management and Business Continuity Management, relevant ISO
standards, COSO model, COBIT Framework, Public Sector Risk Management
Framework. Knowledge of Public Service Values, DPSA guidelines on National
Departments, Compensation Fund business strategies and goals,
Compensation Fund regulations, policies and procedures, Compensation Fund
Services. Legislative requirements: Treasury Regulations. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Skills: Strong leadership, governance and oversight,
Analytical thinking ability and good communication. Courage to challenge
answers and ask relevant questions. Willing to dedicate time and energy to
serve the interest of the public. Encourage openness and transparency.
Healthy skepticism and professional approach. High level of integrity.
Inquisitiveness and independent judgement. Ability to offer new perspective.
DUTIES : Fulfil oversight responsibilities regarding Governance, Risk management,
Internal Control, Legal and Regulatory Compliance, External and Internal
Audit, Anti-corruption and Integrity Management, Compliance Risk
Management, Business Continuity Management and Information and
Communication Technology. Assist the Accounting Officer/Authority in the
effective execution of his/her responsibilities in terms of Risk Management.
Regulate and discharge all the responsibilities as contained in the
Compensation Fund Risk Committee Terms of Reference. By virtue of their
appointment as Chairperson of the Compensation Fund Risk Management
Committee, the individual will also serve as a member of both the
Compensation Fund Audit Committee and the Department of Employment and
Labour National Risk Management Committee.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nkabinde at 076 229 2252
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Corporate Services: P O Box 955, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver
at 167 Thabo Sehume & Madiba Street, Delta Heights Building or Direct your
applications to: Jobs-CF1@labour.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Planning Practices and Administration,
Compensation Fund.
16
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026, 16:00. No late application will be accepted
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a signed Z83 form obtainable from any Public
Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae only,
to be considered. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications, Senior Certificate, Identity Document and driver’s
license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility
to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the
Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Preference
may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated
groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates
only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting
to determine their suitability for employment, including but not limited to:
Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment
(reference checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will
be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: In terms of Directive on Human Resources
Management and Development for Public Service Professionalisation Volume
1 (the Directive), a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts is a successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full
details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-
entryprogramme/.Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of
successful completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted for the posts will
undertake two pre-entry assessments (practical exercise, and integrity
assessment) in accordance with the Directive. Following the interview and the
pre-entry assessments of all SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend
candidate(s) to attend a generic managerial competency assessment in
compliance with the DPSA Directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/23 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REF NO: CFO22/2026
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (an all-inclusive annual remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 8 in Financial Management/ Accounting Science or
relevant equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 8 years
of relevant experience at a senior managerial level or relevant field. Successful
completion of the Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme
(Pre-entry Programme) as endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). Knowledge of Financial management, cost accounting and business
practices. Ability to establish and manage financial systems and controls.
Knowledge of strategic planning and budgeting. Knowledge of strategic
coordination and planning. Knowledge Management and Service Delivery
Innovation. Understanding of risk management and audit procedures.
Knowledge of policy development and business process management.
Understanding of change management and financial management.
Programme and Project Management skills. Sound organising, planning and
leadership skills. Excellent communication, negotiation, stakeholder
engagement, research, analytical, innovative, problem solving, and
interpersonal skills. Ability to work under extreme pressure and to resolve
conflict.
17
DUTIES : Ensure effective and efficient procurement of goods and services to the
Department to ensure proper implementation of the Department’s key focus
areas, and in particular transformation in Supply Chain Management. Develop
and provide PFMA, and Corporate Governance implementation frameworks
including related reporting requirements and timeframes. Ensure development
and implementation of approved policies and procedures for mitigating risks
identified by the department. Ensure implementation of SCM Frameworks and
other applicable Treasury Regulations and prescripts. Ensure efficient and
effective bookkeeping systems, financial planning, budgeting and control
services to the Department. Ensure proper control of departmental expenditure
and implementation of PFMA, Corporate Governance Framework and
Financial Management Requirements. Ensure financial resourcing of the
department in line with National Treasury budget allocations. Manage an
efficient and effective salary, revenue and debtor system within the department.
Provide support in relation to goods and services, logistics and assets
management in line with the PFMA requirements. Ensure proper inventory and
warehouse management in line with inventory management policies. Manage
logistics and reconcile travel services transactions. Control, manage and
maintain reconciled departmental asset register. Oversee the provision of
internal control and compliance services. Effective Audit coordination and the
implementation of audit recommendations. Ensure effective monitoring of
compliance with the Treasury Regulations, Modified Cash Standard, National
Treasury Frameworks, and other Prescripts impacting on Finance and Supply
Chain Management. Ensure adequate systems of control are in place across
the department to minimize financial, operational, and compliance risks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Gerald Ntshane Tel No: (012) 399 9602
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email. Email: CFO22-
2026@dffe.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
POST 15/24 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: FISHERIES MANAGEMENT REF NO:
FIM16/2026
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum, (an all-inclusive annual remuneration package)
CENTRE : Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 8 in Natural Sciences / Environmental Sciences/
Environmental Management / Fisheries Sciences / Public Administration/
Public Management/ Law or relevant equivalent qualification as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of 8 years of relevant experience at a senior managerial
level or relevant field related to the fisheries management Successful
completion of the Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme
(Pre-entry Programme) as endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). Knowledge of the Marine Living Resources Act. Knowledge and
understanding of the fishing industry, aquaculture and marine living resource
management issues. Knowledge and understanding of international laws,
agreements and commitments and their impact on fisheries. Knowledge and
understanding of Government imperatives and priorities. Competencies and
skills: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project
Management, People Management and Empowerment, Financial
Management, Change Management, Knowledge Management, and Service
Delivery Innovation. Sound organising and planning, Good communication,
and Analytical skills. Ability to develop, interpret, implement policies, strategies
and legislation. Ability to work under extreme pressure and to resolve conflict.
DUTIES : Provide strategic and policy leadership with regards to the development of the
aquaculture industry, to enhance economic opportunities and growth, and
sustainable management of inland fisheries. Guide and promote ongoing
research into fisheries-related resources and ecosystems, to enable resource
protection, management and development. Facilitate research with relevant
research institutions with regards to sustainable aquaculture and production,
to improve productivity and sustainable resource utilisation. Ensure that regular
stock assessments, surveys, data collection and other forms of primary
research are undertaken, to underpin policy development and review on an
annual basis. Lead in the establishment of a research capability suitable to
address all aspects of the fisheries management value chain (from
environmental biodiversity and ecosystem issues to biological information, to
18
approaches regarding socioeconomic and environmental considerations (e.g.
methods for extraction). Ensure strategic and operational management of
South Africa’s marine living resources, through sound allocation, permitting,
and management of resources. Ensure monitoring, control and surveillance of
living marine resources. Coordinate the Department’s participation in national,
regional and international structures for the purpose of promoting and
managing inland fisheries, aquaculture and sustainable marine resources
management, and ensuring sector transformation.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Gerald Ntshane Tel No: (012) 399 9602 / Mr Mpho Beta Tel No: (021) 402
3368
APPLICATIONS : Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-delivered to:
Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr Soutpansberg and
Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to the respective email
address quoting the reference number on the subject email. Email: FIM16-
2026@dffe.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Management
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/25 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC REGIONAL ENFORCEMENT AND
INVESTIGATION SUPPORT REF NO: RCSM04/2026
(2 Years Contract)
Re-advertisement and those who have previously applied, need to reapply
SALARY : R932 292 per annum
CENTRE : Limpopo Province (to operate between Limpopo and Mpumalanga provinces)
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Policing, Forensic Investigation, Law,
Environmental Law or relevant qualification within the relevant field as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in investigation
or enforcement, forensic or crime investigation or prosecution or relevant of
which three (3) years should be at entry/junior management level (Assistant
Director level or equivalent). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and
the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Knowledge of
environmental policies and related legislations, international instruments, civil
procedures, criminal procedure, constitutional law and administrative law.
Extensive knowledge of criminal justice system. Knowledge of natural resource
management specifically TOPS/CITES. Good legal drafting, investigative and
evidence gathering skills. Strategic, analytical, problem solving and negotiation
skills. Information management and computer literacy. Report writing,
communication, facilitation, organising and good interpersonal skill. Ability to
gather and analyse information, ability to develop and apply policies, conflict
management and resolution. A service -oriented approach and the ability to
work efficiently and effectively under pressure. Ability to work independently
and within a team. The candidate must have a valid driving license and will be
expected to travel extensively.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate joint initiatives to strengthen the anti-poaching and anti-trafficking
capabilities in the Premier Integrated Wildlife Zone (IWZ). Manage case
dockets and provide criminal investigation support for wildlife related crimes to
ensure effective case management, prosecution support and compliance with
legal procedures. Provide support in relation to court appearances. Liaise with
stakeholders within the Premier IWZ. Attend Provincial Wildlife Crime Forums,
IWZ meetings and other relevant meetings. Provide strategic support to
national wildlife trafficking projects. Ensure the coordination of enforcement
and investigation operations to promote effective compliance and law
enforcement outcomes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr O Chauke Tel No: (012) 399 9317
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town, Limpopo and Mpumalanga: Must be submitted to the Director-
General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director:
Integrated Human Resource Management, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town,
8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape Town or can be emailed to the
respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
Email: RCSM04-2026@dffe.gov.za
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
19
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted for the posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise of all
SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on
the implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed
will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement
and employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
POST 15/26 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FOREST RESOURCE PROTECTION (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Ref No: FOM23/2026
Limpopo / Mpumalanga Ref No: FOM24/2026
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Forestry / Natural Science / Environmental
Management or relevant qualification within the related field as recognised by
SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Forestry or related field. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Knowledge, and evidence of the
National Forest Act 1998 (Act 84 of 1998), National veld and Forest Fire Act
(NVFFA) including Environmental Legislation and policies impacting on the
forestry sector. Sound knowledge in the regulation of natural resources.
Knowledge of government administrative procedures i.e. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Ability to collect and interpret information and
reports. Good communication skills (verbal and written). Good presentation
skills. Computer literacy. Ability to work under pressure and handle criticism.
Ability to work independently and in a team. Ability to negotiate in difficult
situations and to resolve conflict. Ability to work long hours. A Valid Driving
License and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Implement, monitor and review National Forest Act policy and strategies.
Identify areas that can be dealt with through other mechanisms such as
regulations, guidelines, or capacity building and awareness. Review and
comment on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and other specialist
reports for development impacting forests and trees in accordance with the
National Environmental Management Act, 1998 (NEMA) Promote compliance
20
and enforcement regarding the National Forests Act No. 84 of 1998. Liaise with
Directorate of Legal Services and State Law Advisor regarding legal opinions
and interpretation of provisions of the Act. Facilitate the appointment of Forest
Officers as Peace Officers in terms of Criminal Procedure Act, 1977. Implement
capacity building and communication programmes for stakeholders. Conducts
NFA training course to various stakeholders such as SAPS, Judiciary,
Magistrate and Prosecutors, State Organs. Provide technical advice in the
issuing of licenses for protected trees, State and natural forests. Manage and
maintain database of license statistics. Monitor the uniformity of licensing by
evaluating the quality and assurance process and procedures in the Forestry
Regions.
ENQUIRIES : Western Cape Ms T Gwala at 066 374 7795
Limpopo / Mpumalanga Ms N Mudau at 066 566 0640
APPLICATIONS : Cape Town, Limpopo and Mpumalanga: Must be submitted to the Director-
General, Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director:
Integrated Human Resource Management, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town,
8000 or hand-deliver to 14 Loop Street, Cape Town or can be emailed to the
respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
Western Cape Ref No: FOM23-2026@dffe.gov.za
Limpopo Ref No: FOM24-2026@dffe.gov.za
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All candidates shortlisted for the posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and the technical exercise of all
SMS posts, the Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on
the implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed
will be subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement
and employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
21
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
APPLICATIONS : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website (click the ‘apply now’ button) or
http://z83.ngnscan.co.za/apply
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : DHET invites applicants to apply online on the New Z83 form by accessing the
Departmental Website and follow the easy prompts/instructions. Upload the
supporting document, namely, (1) a comprehensive CV and any other
document (where required). A fully completed and signed Z83 form and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae will be considered. A helpful user guide and videos
are available on the DHET website careers page to enable completion of the
digital Z83. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
documents/copies of qualifications and other relevant documents to support
the application on or before the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). Candidates whose appointments promote
representativity in terms of race, gender, and disability will receive preference.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. The successful candidate(s) will be required
to undergo a Competency Assessment. One of the minimum entry
requirements for the SMS position is the Pre-entry Certificate. No appointment
will occur without successfully completing the pre-entry certificate and
submission thereof. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
candidate(s) will be required to sign an annual performance agreement,
disclose his/her financial interests, and be subjected to security clearance. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to personnel suitability checks (criminal record
check, citizenship verification, qualification/study verification, and previous
employment verification). Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. “DHET is committed to providing equal opportunities and
practising affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote
representatives in terms of (race, gender, and disability) in the organisation.
Women and people living with disability will receive preference in all DHET
posts”. N.B. All shortlisted candidates will be required to complete a relevant
competency exercise.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/27 : DIRECTOR: SKILLS DEVELOPMENT IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING:
GAUTENG, NORTHWEST AND FREE STATE REGION REF NO: NSF
01/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Public
Management / Administration and Project Management. A minimum of six to
eight years (6-8) years’ collective work experience in project management with
5 years of experience at a middle/senior managerial level. A relevant
postgraduate qualification would be a distinct advantage. Valid driver’s license.
Skills: Excellent communication, interpersonal and Computer literate, Microsoft
office proficient. Strong administrative, organizational, management, budget
and financial management skills. Time Management, Planning and Organizing,
Ability to act with discretion, problem solving, creative thinking, decision
making, technical proficiency and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Manage and support business intelligence reporting consolidating of
organisational requirements for business intelligence reporting. Ensure good
practice regarding business reporting. Support stakeholders with handling,
22
processing or receiving reports. Manage the collection and interpretation of
data from various internal and external sources, data analysis and report
compilation. Manage business intelligence and organization report
development. Manage organisational performance metrics. Work closely with
financial and business analysts, integrate competitive reporting and maintain
the business data of the NSF. Manage resources of the Directorate, manage
the performance of employees in accordance with policy. Participate as an
active member of the Directorate team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
POST 15/28 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
NSF02/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Financial Management and Administration
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in
Financial Management/ Accounting. A minimum of five (5) to ten (10) years of
working experience in financial management, accounting, or auditing in the
private or public sector with 5 years of experience at a middle/senior
managerial level. Candidates with a CA (SA) qualification will have a distinct
advantage. A dynamic, hardworking individual with strong leadership and
people management skills to manage the Finance Directorate. Core
Competencies: Good interpersonal, strategic leadership, Project Management,
People Management and Empowerment, Financial Management and Change
Management. Excellent problem-solving and analytical skills, technical
proficiency, quality management and communication management. The
incumbent must be service delivery orientated, customer focused, maintain
high integrity and be able to perform in a team environment. Good knowledge
of the financial frameworks, financial legislation, and prescripts applicable to
the public sector will be an added advantage. Highly committed individual to
ensure deadlines are met. Good computer skills and presentation skills.
Willingness to travel, work irregular hours and travel extensively. A valid driver’s
licence is essential.
DUTIES : Manage the daily processing of payments, receipts and other financial
accounting transactions; Manage debtors and creditors; Manage revenue,
administrative expenses and levy collection costs; Manage monthly and annual
financial closure processes; Manage the preparation and review of all relevant
financial workbooks; Manage record-keeping function and central registry;
Manage the preparation of audit files to be used by the Auditor-General of
South African and internal audit during auditing processes; Manage physical
assets and inventories, including leases; Manage facilities, including rental
agreements for office space and parking, security services, cleaning services,
repairs and maintenance, receptionists and boardroom bookings; Manage
travel agents and travel office; Manage mail room and messenger functions;
Manage telecommunication costs and bills; Manage the resources of the
Directorate; Provide advice on financial management and administration
matters; Develop and maintain financial management and administration
policies and procedures; Participate as an active member of the NSF executive
team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/29 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REGIONAL SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
IMPLEMENTATION WESTERN CAPE & NORTHERN CAPE REGION REF
NO: NSF06/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Chief Directorate: Skills Development Implementation
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Cape Town Regional Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Public
Management/ Administration, Project Management, Business Management,
23
Monitoring and Evaluation. A minimum of five (5) years’ work experience in
project management with at least three (3) to five (5) years’ proven work
experience of junior management experience on salary level 9 or 10.
Candidates who have experience or a proven track record in managing large
projects, portfolios of projects, and/or programmes in the private or public
sector will have an added advantage. Good knowledge of the post-school
education and training system will also be an added advantage. This is a
middle management position in a core functional area that requires a dynamic
individual with leadership and people management capabilities. The candidate
must be a strong communicator with the ability to interact with a wide range of
stakeholders. Further skills requirements relate to technical proficiency,
monitoring and evaluation, problem solving and analysis, report writing,
preparing presentations, marketing and communication, knowledge
management, quality management, budgeting and financial management,
human resource management, change management, and negotiation. The
incumbent must be client- oriented, customer-focused focused and be able to
perform in a team environment. A valid driver’s license. Candidates must be
willing to travel the country extensively and travel abroad occasionally, work
irregular hours and be committed to meet deadlines within tight timeframes.
DUTIES : Responsible for ensuring skills development projects within project portfolio
report timely and accurately; Effectively monitor, evaluate and report on the
allocation, management, operational performance and funding of projects
within project portfolio; Responsible for performing expenditure verification and
performance information verification related to projects within project portfolio;
Responsible for coordinating physical verification (learners, infrastructure,
assets etc.) across the different project sites for the projects within project
portfolio; Project Management Ensure that all documents and information
related to projects and programmes in portfolio are submitted for knowledge
management purposes; Manage stakeholders for portfolio of projects; Actively
participate in both regional structures and platforms that are relevant for
effective skills development implementation; Manage staff under his / her
supervision; Provide feedback and strategic advice regarding skills
development activities to the regional head; Participate as an active member
of the regional team; Collaboratively contribute to the development of a project
management framework for projects and programmes specifically for the
region and nationally in general; Effectively implement the project management
framework for projects and programmes within project portfolio.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
POST 15/30 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INITIATION AND EVALUATION REF NO:
NSF07/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Chief Directorate: National Skills Fund
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF 7) in Public
Management/Administration/Business Management/Project Management. A
minimum of five (5) work experience in project management with at least three
(3) to five (5) years of junior management experience on salary level 9 or 10.
The ideal candidate should have good project management skills and be able
to do analysis of documents and situations. The ideal candidate should be
conversant with the public service delivery and management issues. Skills
Development Act, Skills Development Levies Act, National Skills Development
Strategy. Treasury Regulations and working knowledge of the Public Finance
Management Act, South African Qualification Authority Act, National
Qualification Framework (NQF). The individual should be able to apply
strategic thinking with good knowledge and understanding of budgeting and
financial management, communication and information management,
continuous improvement, citizen focus and responsiveness, be able to develop
others and make an impact and influence. Be able to manage interpersonal
conflict and resolve problems. Must also be able to network and build bonds,
plan and organize with excellent problem solving and decision-making skills.
Good understanding and knowledge of programme and project management
and be able to lead, monitor and evaluate a team and engage and manage
relationships with Stakeholders. Valid driver’s license. Skills: Excellent
communication, interpersonal and Computer literate, Microsoft office proficient.
Strong administrative, organizational, management, budget and financial
24
management skills. Time Management, Planning and Organizing, Ability to act
with discretion, problem solving, creative thinking, decision making, technical
proficiency and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Implement the project initiation process by managing the Request for Proposal
(RFP) processes for solicited projects, manage the receipt, logging and
evaluation of applications for unsolicited projects, report on bid applications in
the various stages of the project initiation process, prepare draft Memorandum
of Understanding (MoU) for service providers, develop the monitoring and
evaluation framework that defines monitoring principles and evaluation metrics
for the project. Perform due diligence by reviewing research conducted on
bidders for solicited and unsolicited projects and validate the accuracy of the
information received from bidders. Manage preparation for the Grant
Disbursement Committees by supporting the evaluation of bid applications for
submission to the PGC, preparing recommendations for the GAC on which bid
applications to support, co-ordinate the preparation of committee meetings and
oversee the administrative duties to the GAC including the taking of meeting
minutes. Engage with stakeholders relevant to the initiation and evaluation of
projects, receive progress reports from the various middle management
members and liaise with service providers. Implement the project evaluation
process by reviewing the impact and effectiveness of projects, conduct final
close-out site visits, conduct an independent review of the funded project,
prepare post-implementation review report, facilitate the closeout of the project
and ensure that all documentation related to project evaluation is submitted for
knowledge management purposes. Participate as an active member of the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
POST 15/31 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FUND MANAGEMENT REF NO: NSF03/04/2026 (X3
POSTS)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Fund Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Financial
Management/ Accounting. A minimum of five (5) to ten (10) years of work
experience in financial management, accounting, or auditing in the private or
public sector with at least three (3) to five (5) years of junior management
experience on salary level 9 or 10. Candidates with articles served with
accounting/auditing firm registered with South African Institute of Chartered
Accountants (SAICA) are encouraged to apply. Candidates with CA (SA)
designation or studying towards CA (such as ITC or APC) will have a distinct
advantage. Further skills and competency requirements related to strategic
capability and leadership, budgeting, and financial management, problem-
solving and analysis, Knowledge management and technical proficiency,
quality management, monitoring and evaluation, negotiations and stakeholder
engagement and communication management, change management and
people management and empowerment. This is a financial management
position that requires a dynamic hardworking individual, who is service delivery
oriented, customer-focused, maintains high integrity and can perform in a team
environment. Good knowledge of financial frameworks and financial
legislations and prescripts applicable to the public sector will be an added
advantage. Good computer skills. Candidate must be willing to travel
extensively across the country and work irregular hours with tight timeframes.
Knowledge: Public Financial Management Act (PFMA), Skills Development
Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Regulations 2016 (PSR),
Public Service Act (PSA), Labour Relations Act, Employment Equity Act, Basic
Condition of Employment Act (BCEA), National Treasury Regulation, General
Recognised Accounting Practice. Skill and competencies requirements related
to people management, project management, financial management, planning
and organising, computer literacy, writing skills, verbal communication,
attention to detail, preparing and delivering presentations, performing analysis,
and resolving problems, and quality management. A valid driver’s license and
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide financial management support to NSF team project managers and
skills development providers for the portfolio of skills development projects
funded by NSF, Perform financial due diligence during the initiation of new skills
25
development projects; Perform financial monitoring of the portfolio of projects
including monitoring project expenditure against actual performance and
approved budget; Perform financial reporting for the portfolio of projects during
the execution and close-out thereof. Check and approve project payment
drawdown requests; Prepare relevant financial workbooks, and develop
monthly, quarterly, annual, and ad hoc financial reports; Provide the
expenditure forecasting for a portfolio of projects; Prepare audits files for a
portfolio of projects for use during auditing by the Auditor General of South
Africa and internal audit; Participate as an active member of the NSF financial
team.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
POST 15/32 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC SUPPORT (OFFICE OF THE
EXECUTIVE OFFICER) REF NO: NSF04/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: National Skills Fund Executive Office
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in Public
Management/Administration/ Project Management. A minimum of five (5) years
relevant work experience with at least three (3) to five (5) years’ proven work
experience of junior management level on salary level 9 or 10. Experience in
Project Management and managing resources. Knowledge of Public service
and NSF mandates and strategies. Knowledge of the education system and
pedagogy, post school education framework, government wide legislation.
Legislative knowledge and prescripts e.g. Skills Development Act, Skills
Development Levies Act, Public Service Act, PFMA and National Treasury
Regulations, General knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Further skills
and competency requirement relate to strategic capability and leadership and
communication management and people management and empowerment,
problem solving and analysis, technical proficiency, project management.
Good computer skills and a valid driver’s licence. Candidate must be willing to
travel, work irregular hours and be committed to meet communication
requirements within tight time frames.
DUTIES : Providing strategic support to the Executive Office within NSF. Advising the
Executive Officer on strategic matters. Ensuring effective coordination and
oversight of all strategic initiatives within the NSF. Planning and implementing
strategic initiatives in the line with the NSF mission and mandate. Conducting
assessment to measure the accomplishment of strategic decisions and
initiative. Developing and collate reports on strategic initiatives as required
within the directorate. Proving support within the office of the Executive Officer.
Scrutinise documents to determine actions or information required. Record
minutes or resolutions and communicate to the relevant role players, follow up
on progress made and prepare briefing notes as well other documents.
Compile the agenda of meetings chaired by the Executive Officer and ensure
the circulation of accompanying memoranda. Coordinate branch meetings
including overseeing the logistics. Coordinate parliamentary enquiries with the
relevant stakeholders. Coordinate the performance agreements/assessments
and financial disclosures pertaining to the Office of the Executive Officer. Assist
the Executive Officer in formulating policy recommendations and attend Senior
management meetings. Managing general support services within the Office of
the Executive Officer. Oversee, support and supervise all administrative
functions. Implement administrative measures to ensure efficient working of
Office of the Executive Officer. Manage the engagements of the Executive
Officer. Manage schedules, calendars, presentations, spreadsheets and other
related office tasks. Handle all correspondence and queries requiring the
attention of the Executive Officer. Set up and maintain the systems in the office
that will ensure efficiency in the office. Oversee safe keeping of all documents
for the Office of the Executive Officer so as to ensure compliance with archive
legislation and to enhance information security. Provide content support with
regards to documents (submissions, reports, letters, etc.) to and from the Office
of the Executive Office. Preparing monthly reports and make presentations as
required. Participating as an active member of the NSF. Undertake policy or
line function tasks as required. Compile memoranda, reports, submissions and
a variety of other correspondence for the Executive Officer as required.
Compile presentations and basic speeches for the Executive Officer and or
26
refer complex matters to the relevant unit for preparation. Draft responses for
submission to internal and external stakeholders. Source information and
compile memoranda as required. Coordinate, follow up and compile reports of
a transverse nature for the Executive Officer and advise/sensitise the
Executive Officer on reports to be submitted. Provide support and undertake
special projects as directed by the Executive Officer. Monitor unit activities to
ensure conformance with goals and objectives. Manage public liaison services
within the NSF. Manage public liaison services within the NSF. Oversee the
logging of public complaints or queries regarding the NSF’s service. Oversee
the monitoring of progress of the resolution of the public’s complaints or queries
escalate with the relevant directorates to ensure complaints or queries are
attended to timeously and efficiently. Review monthly reports reflecting
complaints or queries received and resolved. Managing resources of the
directorate. Monitoring expenditure for the directorate against the allocated
budget within NSF. Managing the performance of employees in accordance
with policy. Providing employees with the necessary information and resources
to deliver on their objectives and meet the targets of the directorates.
Supporting the implementation of all management decision. Managing
employees related matters withing the directorate. Always adhere to the values
of NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
POST 15/33 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LEGAL GOVERNANCE RISK AND COMPLIANCE
REF NO: NSF05/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Legal Governance Risk and Compliance
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate LLB degree and admitted as an attorney or advocate. A
minimum of five (5) to eight (8) years’ collective working experience of which
five (5) years should be at a junior management level in legal, governance, risk
and/or compliance in the private or public sector. Qualification in Risk
Management and/or Compliance will be an added advantage. This is a middle
management position which requires a dynamic hardworking individual with
deep knowledge of legislative frameworks, policies and procedures that govern
the public sector, as well as practical experience in providing legal services,
risk management, compliance services and governance services. Further skills
and competency requirements relate to excellent written; verbal
communication; computer skills; research and policy formulation skills;
presentation skills; analytical and problem-solving skills, negotiation, quality
management, budgeting and financial management and human resource
management. The incumbent must be service delivery orientated, customer
focused, maintain integrity and be able to work in a team environment. Good
knowledge of the Post-School Education and Training system will be an added
advantage. Good computer skills and a valid driver’s license are requirements.
Candidates must be willing to travel, work irregular hours and be committed to
meet deadlines within tight timeframes. Candidates must be confident,
trustworthy, accurate and adaptable, must have integrity. The successful
candidate will have to annually disclose his/her financial interests.
DUTIES : Advise the National Skills Fund (NSF) on legal and litigation matters within the
NSF. Drafting legal documents such as contracts, pleadings, agreements,
internal policies, etc. Develops operational plans on legal matters in the NSF.
Analyses, prepares, and submits legal opinions and comments. Facilitates
internal training on legal and regulatory topics to keep the NSF abreast of
regulatory issues and disseminates appropriate legal requirements to staff.
Manages and engages with third party legal advisors. Interprets legal
information. Participates in committees as required. Negotiates, reviews and
drafts documentation for transactions with third parties. Reviews and develops
contracts, agreements, regulations, and internal policies and ensures they are
compliant with all statutory or legal requirements. Acts as custodian for all
contracts, agreements, regulations, and internal policies. Keeps abreast of
latest legislation, regulation, and policy. Ensures the maintenance of an
effective knowledge management system for all legal related material. Reviews
key business activities to ensure compliance with standards, policies, and
regulations. Ensures high risk compliance and governance areas are
proactively identified and mitigated. Implements and maintains the risk
27
assessment process and risk profile of the NSF. Investigates and analyses root
causes, patterns, or trends of the risk assessment. Consults with department
heads to establish, maintain, and improve risk management capabilities.
Ensure sufficient capacity to achieve the objectives of the Directorate. Manage
the performance of employees in accordance with policy. Provide employees
with the necessary information and resources to deliver on their objectives and
meet the objectives of the Directorate. Motivate team members and create a
culture of high performance. Manage leave and related administration for direct
reports. Prepare monthly reports and make presentations as required.
Positively support the implementation of all management decisions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki 012 943 3161
POST 15/34 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STRATEGY AND PARTNERSHIPS REF NO: NSF
08/04/2026)
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Strategy Innovation and Organizational Performance
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF level 7) in Business
Management/Strategic Management/Public Management. A post-graduate
qualification (NQF level 8) will be an advantage. A minimum of 6 years of
practical work experience in the strategic planning environment, of which three
(3) years of junior management experience on salary level 9 or 10. Knowledge
of strategic management, revised framework on Strategic Plans (SPs) and
Annual Performance Plan (APPs), Medium – Term Development – Plan
(MTDP), Government Wide Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (GWMEF),
National Development Plan (NDP), National Evaluation Policy, Research
Methodology Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Act
(PSA). Public Service Regulations (PSR), Treasury Regulations, Framework
on Programme Performance Information, risk management, monitoring and
evaluation. Knowledge of government Budget cycle and government planning
cycle, research, service delivery improvement frameworks. Knowledge of skills
development, National Skills Development Plan, HRDS, knowledge of Skills
Development Act, Skills Levy Act, understanding of the post school education
and training. Experience in strategic plan, annual performance plan and
operational plan development. A valid driver’s licence. Skills: Analytical.
Financial Management. Report Writing. Project Management. Risk
Management. Diversity Management, Computer Literacy. Communication.
Monitoring and Evaluation, Research Methodology. Problem Solving and
Decision Making.
DUTIES : Develop strategic, annual performance plan and operational plans and policy
frameworks. Develop and implement strategic and operational principles and
practices. Evaluate the implementation of departmental policies and assess
the impact and sustainability of programmes. Manage the compilation and
submission of the departmental strategic and annual performance plan.
Develop circulars for communicating on strategic planning issues and
communicating timeframes to stakeholders. Provide technical support
regarding planning process and procedures. Coordinate the implementation of
circulars and develop strategic planning templates. Facilitate the distribution of
templates and quality assure departmental planning documents. Support the
preparation and/or the revision of the departmental strategic plan and the
annual performance plans. Participate in departmental strategic planning and
annual performance planning sessions and meetings. Provide advisory
services regarding strategic planning and annual performance planning
process ensuring alignment to the Medium – Term – Development – Plan
(MTDP) and other government priorities. Guide business units in drafting the
operational plans that are aligned to annual performance plan and strategic
plan. Coordinate the collection of operational plans from business units.
Analyse the draft annual performance plans and coordinate inputs. Coordinate
the submission of the departmental strategic plan and annual performance plan
to the relevant authority for approval. Provide support to the development and
coordination of departmental Strategic and Annual Performance Plans and
operational plan, assist to develop policy and standard operating procedures
aligned to strategic planning and reporting frameworks in the public service;
provide guidance on the implementation of the policy and standard operating
procedures on strategic planning. Provide support to the development of
28
performance indicators, ensure compliance to the revised framework on
Strategic Plans and Annual Performance Plans and advise programme
managers on the development of technical indicator descriptions linked to
programme budget structures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
POST 15/35 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INNOVATION REF NO: NSF 09/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Chief Directorate: Strategy, Innovation and Organisational Performance
Directorate: Strategy, Innovation, And Partnerships
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree/advanced diploma (NQF Level 7) in
Statistics, Econometrics/Economics, Development Studies. A postgraduate
qualification in one or more of the above-mentioned disciplines will be an added
advantage. A minimum of three (3) to five (5) years of junior management
experience on salary level 9 or 10 in conducting research analysis in labour
market and education and training. Research and development of Public
Administration Practice. Strong Technical competence and proven experience
in research, research design, data analysis and Monitoring and Evaluation
methods. Knowledge and experience in research and management of
research projects, Knowledge of sources of data or information with
implications to skills planning, labour markets and education and training.
Knowledge of the latest trends in skills planning, labour markets education and
training research, monitoring and evaluation, and high-level report writing.
Proficiency in econometric modelling and statistical data analysis using
software such as EViews, Stata, Atlas TI, SPSS or any software to analyse
data. Good understanding and experience in survey design and sampling
methodology. Good knowledge of the Post-School Education and Training
system will be an added advantage. Good knowledge and experience in
applicable legislation including the Skills Development Act, Skills Development
Levies Act, Public Service Act, PFMA and National Treasury Regulations.
General knowledge of Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
frameworks and Public Service Regulations. Good computer skills. Valid
driver’s license.
DUTIES : Mine complex data to inform planning, utilise SPSS, Stata, Atlas TI or any
software to analyse data, Develop and maintain an efficient Labour market
Information system (LMIS), develop LMI Frameworks/policies, develop
research methodology and sample size for all research projects, consolidate
complex data for scientific understanding and decision making, perform
statistical analysis and data interpretation, Data cleaning in line with SASQAF
principles, develop research reports, conduct research studies on labour
market and other areas of the entity, undertaking research on the state of the
labour market, keep abreast and lead the development in research on labour
markets and the skills system, Develop data visualizations and infographics
manage and coordinate implementation of research and LMI frameworks,
forecast the number of beneficiaries that the NSF could support in priority
areas. Develop Innovative ideas in project and program management to enable
the NSF to optimize resource allocation, streamline processes, and enhance
project outcomes. Facilitate innovation in NSF; Manage Innovation; Implement
innovation. Develop and update NSF’s strategy and partnerships and keep
abreast of innovations and leading practices in skills development through
research and evaluation. Facilitate collaboration across departments to
encourage the exchange of ideas and knowledge; Establish and nurture
relationships with key stakeholders to ensure alignment with organizational
strategic goals. Track and report on the implementation of approved research
and LMI Findings/initiatives; submit proposals to governing structures for
approval of all research/LMI initiatives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
29
POST 15/36 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PROGRAMME MONITORING REF NO:
NSF10/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Regional Skills Development Implementation
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REǪUIREMENTS : An appropriate diploma/ bachelor’s degree (NǪF Level 6) in Public
Administration/Management, Project Management. A minimum of three (3) to
five (5) years’ work experience at a supervisory level in project management.
Knowledge and experience in assisting with the management of projects,
portfolios of projects and/or programmes in the private or public sector. This
junior management position in a core functional area requires a dynamic
individual with leadership and people management capabilities. The candidate
must be a strong communicator with the ability to interact with a wide range of
stakeholders. Knowledge of legislative framework, Skills Development Act,
Skills Development Levies Act, Public Service Act, Public Financial
Management Act, and National Treasury Regulations. Further skills
requirements relate to technical proficiency, monitoring, and evaluation,
problem- solving and analysis, report writing, preparing presentations,
marketing and communication, knowledge management, quality management,
budgeting and financial management, human resource management, change
management and negotiation. The incumbent must be client orientated,
customer focused and be able to perform in a team environment. Good
computer skills. Candidates must be willing to travel the country extensively
and travel abroad occasionally, work irregular hours and be committed to
meeting deadlines within tight timeframes. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Monitor the implementation of projects in the national and facilitate the
orientation and training of project service providers at the learner site level.
Implement the monitoring and evaluation log frame within a portfolio of learner
sites and monitor performance against it. Verify the accuracy and validity of
performance reports from each learner site. Monitor the status of outputs from
learner sites. Monitor learner site facilities and administration to ensure that
training by service provider meets the requirements of the Service Level
Agreement. Conduct site visits at a portfolio of learner sites. Escalate risks to
the Deputy Director: Programme Monitoring. Manage invoicing and financial
reporting for a portfolio of learner sites. Liaise with project payment officers on
invoices and financial requests. Attend to all the projects audit matters.
Escalate the issue to Deputy Director: Programme Monitoring and other
relevant stakeholders. Conduct due diligence regarding all project’s activities
including, but not limited to new projects, complete change request
documentation and submit to the Deputy Director: National Skills Development
Monitoring. Support project reporting and develop and upload monthly and
quarterly project progress reports onto the knowledge management systems
available to NSF. Review project progress reports and perform verification site
visits. Upload all documents related to projects onto the knowledge
management system in accordance with knowledge management policy and
process. Manage and maintain relationships with service providers of projects
at a site level. Engage and maintain good relationships with project payment
officers regarding project financials. Participate as an active member of the
regional team in all relevant structures of the NSF.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
POST 15/37 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY REF NO: NSF 11/04/2026
Branch: Skills Development
Component: National Skills Fund
Directorate: Information Communication Technology and Analytics
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Diploma/Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 6) in information
technology, Computer Science. A minimum of 3-5 years of relevant experience
in ICT, with at least (3) to five (5) years’ work experience at a supervisory or
management role. Experience in ICT strategy implementation, systems
administration (AZURE cloud infrastructure, D365 ERP and Active Directory,
Mimecast, Veeam Backup, M365 packages, Intune, Cyber Security platforms),
30
and infrastructure management. Knowledge of public sector ICT governance
frameworks (e.g., DPSA, CGICTPF, POPIA, ISO/IEC standards). Experience
in IT project management and user support, the incumbent will also be a person
who works well under pressure, pays attention to detail, works well within a
team environment and has good communication skills. Excellent technical
knowledge of ICT systems, networks, and security, Strong leadership,
communication, and stakeholder management skills. Analytical thinking and
problem- solving abilities. Ability to manage projects and deliver results within
tight deadlines, Knowledge of ICT legislation and policy frameworks in the
public service. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement the ICT strategy and manage the NSF’s ICT infrastructure including
applications, hardware and systems. Support the development and
implementation of ICT strategies, policies, and standards. Manage the ICT
infrastructure and ensure the security, reliability, and availability of ICT
systems. Coordinate ICT service delivery, including user support, system
administration, and network management. Oversee the implementation and
maintenance of business systems and enterprise resource planning. Ensure
proper ICT governance, including risk management, business continuity, and
disaster recovery planning. Lead ICT projects and initiatives aligned with
organizational goals. Assist in managing ICT procurement, licensing,
maintenance and service provider SLAs. Provide technical guidance and
support to internal stakeholders. Manage ICT hardware requirements for the
NSF. Identify any ICT hardware issues and determine if they are repairable
internally or if they need to go to the suppliers for repairs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Moyane Tel No: (012) 943 3105 / Ms C Els Tel No: (012) 943 3250 / Ms
B Setuki Tel No: (012) 943 3161
31
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The DHA is a merit-based, equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line with its commitment
to promoting representivity, in the filling of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based
candidates on grounds of affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and
learners who have successfully completed their respective skills development programmes. In the filling
of all posts, preference may be afforded to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to
women. Persons falling in these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred. The DHA
complies with the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013). Applicants’ personal
information will be used for recruitment purposes, retained where required for audit, and safeguarded
against unauthorised disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of an application constitutes
consent to such processing.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional,
passionate and talented individuals to form part of a new leadership team,
equipped with the right skills to facilitate the transformation of Home Affairs into
a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to delivering on
the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation,
ascribe to the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on
the needs of DHA Clients with the highest levels of dignity, integrity and
innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of the following
positions, kindly respond before the closing date. Applications must be
submitted online or on the correct address specified at the bottom of the posts,
on or before the closing date, accompanied by a fully completed Application for
Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021), obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number and job title, and a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy), job title, duties
performed and exit reason for each employment period to be considered, as
well as the details of at least two contactable employment references (as recent
as possible), regardless of online or manual submission. All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will also be required to
submit a copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job
requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic
Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed.
Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s), are required
to submit the evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA); will be subjected to an interview,
various relevant tests and assessments, and employment suitability checks
(credit, criminal, citizenship, qualifications, and employment references
including verification of exit reasons, and conducting business with State).
Once appointed, serving of a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a
security clearance appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence
between the Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted
candidates, ONLY.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/38 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: PREVENTION AND ANALYSIS REF NO: HRMC 19/26/1
Chief Directorate: Prevention and Analysis
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Operations Management, Business
Management or Administration, Public Management or Administration or
related at an NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’ experience at a
Senior Management level, within Public Services or Operations Management
is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.
32
Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and Departmental
Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. Sound knowledge
and understanding of the Strategic Intelligence Act. Knowledge of the
Protection of Information Act. Knowledge of the Criminal Procedure Act.
Knowledge of the Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS). Knowledge
of the South African Police Service Act, and anti-corruption legislation.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of policy development and government protocol. Excellent abilities
and vast experience in project management, project optimization, and the use
of online systems. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness
to travel and work extended hours. Completion of the Senior Management
Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation,
client orientation and customer focus. People management and empowerment.
Financial Management. Program and project management. Change
management. Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as
enabling technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively
managing the required work. Support with digital transformation. Innovation.
Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as presentation skills.
Problem-solving and analysis. Research Methodology and Analysis. Process
analysis and improvement. Influencing, networking, conflict management and
negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information Management. Decision making
and initiating action. Planning, organising and time management. Policy
development, coaching and facilitating. Result-orientated. Computer literacy.
Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Oversee and Facilitate the Collection and Analysis of
Information and Statistical Data on Counter Corruption Cases. Oversee
maintenance of a detailed record of information collected and analysed.
Oversee the management of the interpretation of raw and statistical data into
meaningful, connected information to be used in the Department. Oversee the
establishment of a knowledge library for Counter-Corruption and Security
Services and ensure the effective maintenance thereof. Provide strategic
direction on profiling of statistical data, trends and analysis to assist in the
investigations and prosecution of Counter Corruption cases. Oversee the
management of research on information, statistical data, tendencies and
trends, nationally and internationally, concerning irregularities, unlawful
conduct, breaches and syndicate activities relating to the core processes and
business conducted by the Department. Provide relevant project support to
business units and other Law Enforcement Agencies before, during and after
investigations. Provide feedback on trends, risk areas, system weaknesses,
and process inefficiencies within the Department. Ensure the effective
implementation of strategic objectives and innovation initiatives within the Chief
Directorate. Provide strategic direction, and leadership and ensure the
strategic positioning. Ensure effective and efficient management of human,
physical and financial resources within the Chief Directorate. Coach and guide
taff on compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mkhaliphi Tel No: (012) 406 7109
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ccssrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 15/39 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPECIAL INITIATIVES REF NO: HRMC 19/26/2
Branch: Information Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Project Management, ICT, Information
Systems, Business Management or related at NQF level 7 as recognized by
SAQA. 5 Years’ experience at a Senior Management, is required. 8 to 10 Years’
experience in ICT, Digital Transformation, PMO or Governance environment.
Extensive experience in Information Technology (IT) Project Management
environment is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
33
Knowledge of the GITO Frameworks, standards and guidelines. Knowledge of
the Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of E-Government
Imperatives. Knowledge of State Information Technology Act (SITA).
Knowledge of Project Management processes and procedures. Knowledge of
policy development and government protocol. Excellent abilities and vast
experience in project management, project optimization, and the use of online
systems. A valid drivers’ license. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. On call is required. Completion of the Senior Management Services Pre-
entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills and competencies:
Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation, client
orientation and customer focus. People management and empowerment.
Financial Management. Program and project management. Change
management. Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as
enabling technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively
managing the required work. Support with digital transformation. Innovation.
Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as presentation skills.
Portfolio Management. Benefits Realisation. COBIT 2019. CGICT. ITIL.
Enterprise Governance. Organisational Change Management. Risk and
Compliance Management. Change management. Problem-solving and
analysis. Business Report Writing. Influencing, networking, conflict
management and negotiation skills. Knowledge and Information management.
Decision making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time
management. Dealing with Pressure and Setbacks. Policy development,
coaching and facilitating. Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Lead the implementation of interventions included in the DHA
Digital Transformation Strategy. Oversee the scope, plan, and develop the
business case for all relevant programs as required. Oversee the alignment of
project/program initiatives with National Policy, Imperatives, and International
benchmarks. Liaise with business stakeholders to clarify and understand
project deliverables, scope, and expected benefits. Ensure the submission of
proposals, plans, and budgets for approval for all project initiatives that are
required within the branch. Provide guidance on the establishment and sign-
off on Project Charters, Governance forums, Resourcing (including
budget/funding) and expected deliverables. Oversee IS projects in line with the
Departmental priorities for every approved strategic IS program. Act as
Programme Manager for large-scale, international, and cross-departmental
programmes where required. Lead implementation of DHA Digital
Transformation Strategy and associated roadmap. Align all strategic
programmes to National Development Plan, MTSF, DPSA CGICT, COBIT 2019
and DHA strategic priorities. Institutionalise Quarterly Implementation
Feasibility Reviews (QIFR) for strategic prioritisation and oversight. Oversee
strategic programme business cases, feasibility studies, and transformation
value propositions. Ensure benefits realisation frameworks are established for
all major programmes. Coordinate Digital Transformation Steering Committee
inputs and programme prioritization. Lead cross-departmental transformation
programmes and strategic modernisation initiatives. Establish and Manage
PMO, Programme, Project and Portfolio Delivery Frameworks. Oversee
effective project management processes, procedures and standards are
adhered to as prescribed by the Project Management Methodology. Create and
build partnerships with various internal and external stakeholders in order to
ensure programme delivery. Oversee effective sourcing, contracting and
managing of IS contractors, consultants and vendors against programme
targets. Ensure compliance with Project Management Office (PMO)
requirements as per the approved methodology. Report regularly on
project/programme progress, risks and budget to sponsors and relevant
stakeholders against the agreed timelines and outputs of Project Plans. Ensure
alignment to PMBOK/PRINCE2/MSP/COBIT governance requirements. Build
Chief Directorate Capability, Innovation and Organisational Digital
Transformation Maturity. Develop the Chief Directorate into a Centre of
Excellence for Digital Transformation, PMO, Governance and Special
Initiatives. Build organisational capability in programme governance, project
controls, digital transformation, and benefits realization. Implement skills
development frameworks aligned to DHA strategy. Ensure Enterprise
Governance, CGICT, COBIT 2019 Compliance, Risk and Assurance. Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Chief Directorate. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mkhaliphi Tel No: (012) 406 7109
34
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 15/40 : DIRECTOR: FINGERPRINT VERIFIVATION REF NO: HRMC 19/26/3
Chief Directorate: Back Office ID Processing
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : A undergraduate qualification in Public Management, Administration, Business
Administration or related at an NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’
experience at Middle / Senior Managerial level in Public Service or Operations
Management environment is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public
service and Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government
Structures. Sound knowledge and understanding of the Citizenship Act,
Identification Act, Immigration Act, PAJA, POPIA, PAIA and Bill. Knowledge of
Authority on fingerprint legislation, standards of fingerprint evidence.
Demonstrated knowledge and understanding of workforce planning and
optimization. Knowledge of policy development and government protocols.
Knowledge of PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Excellent abilities and vast
experience in project management, project optimization, and the use of online
systems. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel
and work extended hours. Demonstrated commitment to high ethical standard
and integrity. Completion of the Senior Management Services Pre-entry
Certificate upon appointment. Required skills and competencies: Strategic
capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and
customer focus. People management and empowerment. Financial
Management. Program and project management. Change management.
Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as enabling
technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively managing
the required work. Support with digital transformation. Excellent verbal and
written communication, as well as presentation skills. Problem-solving and
analysis. Delegation skills. Quality Orientation. Data and Records
Management. Strong Analytical skills. Process Analysis and Improvement.
Influencing, networking, conflict management and negotiation skills.
Knowledge and Information management. Dealing with pressure and setbacks.
Decision making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time
management. Policy development, coaching and facilitating. Result-orientated.
Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage effective operations within the verification unit. Provide
expert advice and on the verification unit to achieve operational goals. Monitor
performance against Service Level Agreements (SLA) and ensure responsive
service delivery to internal and external requirements. Interpret and maintain
statistical data on service level standards, bottlenecks, volumes, trends, and
error rates. Monitor SLA performance between Front Office and the unit,
initiating corrective actions where necessary. Develop and implement quality
assurance and data quality strategies and an action plan. Ensure accurate
financial accounting, monitoring, and reporting within the unit. Ensure effective
and consistent implementation of Standard Operating Procedures. Implement
effective operational control measures to ensure fingerprint quality, record
accuracy, corruption prevention, and limit non-financial losses. Ensure all
fingerprints are accurately verified, captured and stored on relevant systems.
Ensure Successful Business Transformation Within the ID Back Office
Processing Unit. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working relationship
with the department and relevant stakeholders. Provide strategic direction, and
leadership and ensure the strategic positioning. Oversee the development and
review of policies and code of practice for the Branch. Ensure effective risk and
compliance management. Implement governance processes, frameworks and
procedures. Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical
and financial resources within the Chief Directorate. Coach and guide staff on
compliance with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Modipa Tel No: (012) 406 4243
35
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
civicsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 15/41 : DIRECTOR: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REF NO: HRMC 19/26/4
Chief Directorate: Inter-Sectoral Collaborations and International Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in International Relations, Political Science,
Public Administration, Management, Public Management or related at an NQF
level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’ experience at Middle / Senior
Managerial level is required. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of all relevant public service and
Departmental Legislative Frameworks, as well as Government Structures.
Knowledge of the Births and Deaths Registration Act, No. 51 of 1992.
Knowledge of the Births and Deaths Registration Act, No. 51 of 1992.
Knowledge of the Identification Act, No. 68 of 1997. Knowledge of Intelligence
Act, Criminal Procedures Act, Police Act, Anti-corruption legislation, LRA,
BCEA, PSA. Knowledge of policy development and government protocol.
Knowledge of PFMA and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge and understanding
of Preferential Policy Framework (PPFA). Knowledge of the Protection of
information Act (POPIA). Knowledge of Departmental core policies, prescripts
and practices. Understanding of Good Corporate Governance principles (King
II). Excellent abilities and vast experience in project management, project
optimization, and the use of online systems. A valid drivers’ license is an added
advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended hours. Demonstrated
commitment to high ethical standard and integrity. Completion of the Senior
Management Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills
and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery
innovation, client orientation and customer focus. People management and
empowerment. Financial Management. Program and project management.
Change management. Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as
well as enabling technology, to support the Department in efficiently and
effectively managing the required work. Support with digital transformation.
Excellent verbal and written communication, as well as presentation skills.
Problem-solving and analysis. Process analysis and improvement.
Stakeholder relations and customer focus. Data and Records Management.
Strong Analytical skills. Process Analysis and Improvement. Influencing,
networking, conflict management and negotiation skills. Knowledge and
Information management. Dealing with pressure and setbacks. Decision
making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time management.
Policy development, coaching and facilitating. Business report writing.
Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Manage and participate in International relations operations in
the department. Ensure the planning, coordination and provision of feedback
in international engagements relating to Multilateral, Bilateral issues and
protocol services. Facilitate DHA alignment to South African foreign policy
objectives; maintain good diplomatic relations. Coordinate the drafting, text
negotiation and sign-off for international Agreements and Memoranda of
Understanding with foreign counterparts. Coordinate Departmental compliance
with reporting and/or participation requests by the Department of International
Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) and the Department of Defence in
relevant international structures. Oversee visits from foreign dignitaries
travelling to South Africa and coordinate visits of South African foreign
dignitaries travelling abroad. Ensure the provision of protocol services at
international engagements for the Minister, Deputy Minister and Director
General. Analysing global affairs, fostering international cooperation, and
advising on geopolitical issues. Ensure the provisioning of protocol services for
incoming delegations on official visit to the Department. Establish, maintain and
ensure a good working relationship with the department and relevant
stakeholders. Provide strategic direction, and leadership and ensure the
strategic positioning. Oversee the development and review of policies and code
of practice for the Branch. Ensure effective risk and compliance management.
36
Implement governance processes, frameworks and procedures. Ensure
effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial resources
within the Chief Directorate. Coach and guide staff on compliance with all
regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Mamphoke Tel No: (012) 406 4247
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
POST 15/42 : DIRECTOR: NETWORKS REF NO: HRMC 19/26/5
Chief Directorate: Infrastructure Management
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive salary
package) structured as follows: Basic salary – 70% of package; State
contribution to the Government Employee Pension Fund – 13% of basic salary.
The remaining flexible portion may be structured in terms of the applicable
remuneration rules.
CENTRE : Head Office, Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Information Technology, Information and
Communication Technology, Information Systems, Computer Science,
Computer Engineering, Information Technology Management or related at an
NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. 5 Years’ experience at Middle / Senior
Managerial in an IT environment is required. Professional certifications such
as CCNA, CCNP or equivalent will be an added advantage. Extensive years’
experience in IT Networks is required. Extensive experience in network design
and implementation. Experience in managing a network with not less than 300
users. Extensive experience in a LAN and WAN environment is essential.
Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant public service and Departmental Legislative
Frameworks, as well as Government Structures. Sound knowledge and
application of the GITO Requirements and Frameworks. Knowledge of the
State Information Technology Agency Act 88 of 1998. Knowledge of the E
government policy framework consultation paper developed by GITO.
Knowledge and understanding of network concepts, architectures and
protocols. Sound knowledge of Minimum Information Security Standards
(MISS, The position paper on information security ISO 17799 (Information
Security framework), National Strategic Intelligence Act and the Draft
Electronic Transactions Bill. Knowledge of LAN and WAN. Excellent abilities
and vast experience in project management, project optimization, and the use
of online systems. A valid drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness
to travel and work extended hours. Completion of the Senior Management
Services Pre-entry Certificate upon appointment. Required skills and
competencies: Strategic capability and leadership Service delivery innovation,
client orientation and customer focus. People management and empowerment.
Financial Management. Accountability. Program and project management.
Change management. Ability to translate Technology language into English.
Ability to instill appropriate processes and systems, as well as enabling
technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively managing
the required work. Support with digital transformation. Excellent verbal and
written communication, as well as presentation skills. Problem-solving and
analysis. Conflict management and resolution. Strong Analytical skills.
Computers and Networks. Engineering and technology. Technology design
(Networks). Influencing, networking, conflict management and negotiation
skills. Knowledge and Information management. Telecommunications.
Troubleshooting. High Level L2 and L3 Networking skills. Decision making and
initiating action. Planning, organising and time management. Policy
development, coaching and facilitating. Business report writing. Computer
literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Lead and direct the coordination and implementation of WAN
and LAN operations. Direct, plan, organise, and manage operations for
stability, availability and integrity of the organization’s IT network infrastructure.
Manage the delivery of critical support services for day to day IT network
operation, data communications, and telecommunications according to the
required time frames. Manage the development and implementation of LAN
and WAN environment. Oversee the designing and availability communication
infrastructure in the department. Ensure approval and recommend the usage
of new or changed standards to ensure improved efficiency, effectiveness and
robustness. Manage the project work and producing weekly/ monthly reports
37
in relation to network infrastructure and other problems. Provide input into the
estimation and scheduling of implementation of activities. Manage and ensure
the implementation of identified potential threats and liaise with IS Security for
resolution/ addressing threats. Manage the development of identified policies
and standards and guidelines to be followed by DHA to ensure safe keeping of
networks. Provide support to the CD regarding reporting requirements of the
function. Maintain relationship with service providers (Internet Service
Providers, SITA, and other network infrastructure services companies).
Manage and ensure bandwidth to ensure adequate capacity throughout the
Department. Liaise with IS security to ensure minimisation of threats such as
intrusion. Manage the performance of external service providers. Lead and
direct the implementation, Installation and configuration of IS network. Manage
and implement strategic objectives and innovation within the directorate.
Ensure operational efficiency and service delivery improvement of network
support in the department. Ensure good governance and compliance within the
directorate. Implement governance processes, frameworks and procedures.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Chief Directorate. Coach and guide staff on compliance
with all regulatory requirements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Rakgoale Tel No: (012) 406 2808
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
isrecruitment@dha.gov.za
OTHER POST
POST 15/43 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PLANNING SUPPORT REF NO: HRMC 19/26/6
Directorate: Strategic Planning
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (an all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Strategic Management, Public
Administration, Social Sciences at NQF 6 as recognized by SAQA. A post
graduate degree is an added advantage. Three (3) Years’ experience in an
Assistant Director (Junior Management) level in a Strategic Planning
environment is required. Knowledge of the Departmental Legislations and
Prescripts. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory Framework. A valid
drivers’ license is an added advantage. Willingness to travel and work extended
hours. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability and leadership.
Service Delivery Innovation. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. People
Management and Empowerment. Financial management. Knowledge
management. Honesty and Integrity. Manpower forecasting and planning.
Project Management. Decision Making. Communication skill. Research
methodology. Business Report writing. Influencing and networking. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Conflict Management and Negotiation skills.
Interpersonal Relations. Presentation skills. Planning and Organising skills.
Strong Analytical skills. Facilitation skills. Computer Literacy skills. Patriotism,
Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Provide expert advice and support the strategic planning
process in DHA through the provision of professional guidance. Provide
guidance and support to branches on all aspects of the formulation and
improved of their plans. Identify areas where assistance and support is
required regarding the formulation of plans. Review individual branch plans and
assess relevance and compliance in relation to strategic planning prescripts.
Create mechanisms to build general capacity in the specific areas identified
through guideline documents and advice that is appropriate and relevant to the
different stages of the planning cycle. Develop and circulate guideline
documents and notes to assist the strategic planning process. Effectively
manage key stakeholders to gain buy in to the planning process and to solicit
feedback in terms of the planning process. Utilise stakeholder feedback and
internal analysis to continuously improve the support provided to the strategic
planning process. Develop the implementation of policy and procedure,
directive acts and regulations. Establish, maintain and ensure a good working
relationship with the department and relevant stakeholders. Implement
effective risk and compliance in line with the relevant legislative prescripts.
Ensure effective and efficient management of human, physical and financial
resources within the Unit. Coach and guide staff on best practices and
compliance with regulatory requirements.
38
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms N Raziya, Tel No: (012) 406 44155
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
ipsrecruitment@dha.gov.za
39
ANNEXURE H
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
The National School of Government (The NSG) contributes to the building of an effective, capable and
professional public service through the provision of relevant, mandatory and non-mandatory training
programmes.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted using the link provided, should you submit your
application and CVs to the incorrect link it will be regarded as lost and will not
be considered.
FOR ATTENTION : And Enquiries: Kindly contact Mr Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017 or Mr
Thabo Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 441-6108.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : Suitably qualified, dynamic, passionate, and experienced persons are invited
to apply for the vacant permanent positions. Applicants are requested to visit
the NSG website at www.thensg.gov.za or www.dpsa.gov.za for information on
the requirements and duties of the position. Applications must consist of: A fully
completed and signed new Z83 form with a comprehensive CV containing
contactable references. Use of the old Z83 Form will result in disqualification.
Candidates should not attach certified documents to the application. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents on or
before the day of the interview. The relevant reference number must be written
on the application form. Foreign qualifications must be accompanied by an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All appointments are subject
to personnel suitability checks such as security vetting, citizen verification,
financial records check, and qualifications verifications. Applications that do not
comply with the above-mentioned requirements as well as applications that are
received late, will not be considered. The selection process of the SMS post
will be in line with the Senior Management Service requirements. The
successful candidate will be expected to sign a performance agreement within
three months from the date of assumption of duties and where applicable to
disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests within a month. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Department to achieve its employment equity targets. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender, and disability) through the filling of
this post. The NSG reserves the right not to make an appointment and to use
other recruitment processes. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. Successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme (Nyukela) is required for appointment of the SMS posts. Enrolment
for the course should be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/44 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM SUPPORT AND TRAINER
PROFESSIONALISATION REF NO: NSG 10/2026
Job Purpose: To lead the institution -wide curriculum support and ETD
practitioner Professionalisation functions, positioning the National School of
Government as a credible, innovative, and quality-driven education and
training provider, constitutional values, public sector capability requirements,
and the higher education and skills development mandate of the institution.
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14), an inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum bachelor’s degree or equivalent (NQF level 7) in curriculum
development, instructional design, education, capacity development, or a
related field. A post-graduate qualification (NQF level 9 or 10) will be an added
advantage, particularly given the higher education mandate. Registration with
a relevant professional body will also be an advantage. The successful
applicant will be subjected to security vetting at an appropriate clearance level
for senior managers. Experience: Extensive proven and relevant experience of
which five (5) years must be at a senior managerial level, in education, training,
40
or public sector capacity building. Proven experience in: Curriculum
development and accreditation processes (CHE/QCTO/SAQA). Leading large-
scale education or professionalisation programmes. Managing
multidisciplinary teams and budgets. Stakeholder engagement at the executive
level (government, academia, international bodies). Demonstrated experience
in driving innovation in learning and digital education. Experience in applied
research, publication, or policy development will be an added advantage.
Knowledge Higher education and skills development frameworks, including
CHE, QCTO, SAQA, and NQF requirements. Curriculum design, instructional
design models, and outcomes-based education principles. Quality assurance
systems and accreditation processes in higher education and occupational
qualifications. Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa and public sector legislation (including the Public
Service Act, Public Administration Management Act, Municipal Systems Act,
Municipal Structures Act, Skills Development Act, Public Finance Management
Act, Municipal Finance Management Act, National Qualifications Framework,
Higher Education and Training Act, Further Education and Training Act). ETD
practitioner professionalisation frameworks, standards, and competency
models. Public sector governance, administration, and policy environment.
Digital learning ecosystems, e-learning platforms, and emerging EdTech
trends. Research methodologies, knowledge management, and policy
development in public education sectors. Financial management, budgeting,
and MTEF processes within government. Change management, organisational
development, and institutional transformation. Skills Curriculum architecture
design for multi-course blended programmes. Advanced design and
management of complex simulations and action learning. Strategic selection
and procurement of new learning technologies. Learning analytics by linking
data from other systems (e.g. LMS). Change management to drive adoption of
new learning technologies and methods. Mentoring and leadership of
instructional design teams. High level of integrity and ethical conduct.
Intellectual leadership and credibility in the education and public sector space.
Results-driven with a strong sense of accountability. Innovative and forward-
thinking mindset. Strong interpersonal and influencing ability. Resilience and
ability to operate under pressure. Commitment to public service values and
transformation. Attention to detail balanced with strategic perspective. Proven
advanced writing, proofreading, and editing skills. Good conflict management
skills. Public presentation & engagements. Advanced computer skills in MS
Office Suite and Adobe. Competencies: Must be able to initiate and support
organisational transformation and change to successfully implement new
initiatives and deliver on service delivery commitments. Must be able to
promote the generation and sharing of knowledge and learning to enhance the
collective knowledge of the organisation. Must be able to explore and
implement new ways of delivering services that contribute to improving
organisational processes to achieve organisational goals. Must be able to
systematically identify, analyse, and resolve existing and anticipated problems
to reach optimum solutions in a timely manner. Must be able to manage and
encourage people, optimise their outputs, and effectively manage relationships
in order to achieve organisational goals. Must be willing and able to deliver
services effectively and efficiently to put the spirit of customer service (Batho
Pele) into practice. Must be able to exchange information and ideas in a clear
and concise manner appropriate for the audience to explain, persuade,
convince, and influence others to achieve the desired outcomes. Must be able
to display and build the highest standards of ethical and moral conduct to
promote confidence and trust in the Public Service. Personal Attributes:
Participate in professional development growth activities for maintaining
professional knowledge and staying current with curricular trends. Ability to
multi-task and organise, prioritise and follow multiple projects and tasks
through to completion with attention to detail. Ability to work independently
while contributing to a team environment. Ability to analyse problems, identify
solutions, take appropriate action, and resolve conflicts using independent
judgment and decision-making. Ability to establish and maintain effective
working relationships with management, employees, stakeholders, and the
public. Integrity and honesty, detail-oriented, creative and innovative, ability to
work under pressure. Domestic and international travel and extended work
hours when required. Preference will be given to African Males, Youth, African
and Coloured Males and people with disability in accordance with our
employment equity requirements.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the following Key Results Areas:
Develop, review, and implement curriculum policies, norms, standards, and
41
institutional curriculum frameworks aligned with national priorities and
organisational strategy. Lead the design and implementation of a
comprehensive ETD practitioner professionalisation framework, including
competency standards, learning pathways, and continuous professionals’
development programmes. Oversee the incorporation of Africanised and
decolonised perspectives through a formal curriculum transformation plan
incorporating inclusivity, citizen-centered service delivery, and social justice
principles to enhance cultural relevance and responsiveness to the public
sector needs. Oversee the planning and development and management of
qualification and programme pipelines aligned to NQF level descriptors and
institutional priorities. Integrate digital learning strategies and innovation
frameworks into curriculum planning and delivery. Lead and manage the
design, development, review, and continuous improvement of accredited and
non-accredited programmes. Develop and implement standardised curriculum
development methodologies, tools, and templates. Support other units to
maintain quality assurance systems, including moderation, peer review, and
continuous improvement processes. Lead the development of modular,
stackable, and credit-bearing programmes including micro-credentials and
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL). Facilitate the integration of digital learning
technologies and innovative instructional methodologies into programme
delivery. Ensure alignment between curriculum architecture, accreditation
requirements, learner pathways, and institutional strategy. Implement rigorous
quality assurance mechanisms including accreditation, moderation, peer
review, continuous improvement, and impact evaluation to ensure curriculum
relevance, effectiveness, and compliance with accreditation standards across
accredited and non-accredited programmes. Integrate cutting edge
educational technologies and diverse instructional methodologies within a
coherent digital leaning ecosystem, informed by learning analytics and
emerging EdTech trends to enhance accessibility and learner impact.
Contribute towards programme effectiveness, including learner performance,
impact, and continuous improvement interventions. Conduct benchmarking
exercises to align programmes with national and international best practices.
Identify, establish, and manage strategic partnerships with government
institutions, higher education institutions, SETAs, and international
organisations. Design and implement capacity-building and continuous
professional development initiatives for ETD practitioners. Provide advice and
support to public sector institutions on curriculum development and
professionalisation. Plan and facilitate knowledge-sharing platforms, including
workshops, seminars, and communities of practice. Identify and secure funding
opportunities, partnerships, and sponsorships to support curriculum and
professionalisation initiatives. Design and tailor programme offerings to meet
the needs of diverse learner groups. Facilitate collaboration and coordination
with internal units and external stakeholders to strengthen curriculum and
professionalisation initiatives. Provide secretariat and technical support to
academic, curriculum and Professionalisation governance structure including
the preparation of reports, submissions and compliance documentation.
Establish, chair, and manage interdepartmental and intergovernmental forums,
higher education institutions, Setas, professional bodies and international
organisation to support curriculum development, Professionalisation,
accreditation and research initiatives. Initiate and manage collaborative
programmes with local and international institutions. Represent the institution
at national and international platforms, forums and conferences, providing
intellectual and Professionalisation leadership in public-sector education and
training. Develop and maintain partnerships to support curriculum and
professional development.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
APPLICATIONS : Apply Online Via This Link: APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT CD:
CURRICULUM SUPPORT & TRAINER PROFESSION, NSG: 10/2026. – Fill
out form
POST 15/45 : DIRECTOR: CURRICULUM SUPPORT REF NO: NSG 11/2026
Job Purpose: To provide curriculum support by enhancing the teaching and
learning process through the provision of necessary tools and assistance for
the NSG to effectively implement the ETD interventions.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), an inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
42
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a tertiary qualification (NQF level 7) in
Curriculum Development and Instructional Design, and teaching, especially in
areas of politics and economic governance. Masters or post-graduate
qualification in curriculum development and instructional design and
experience in teaching Public Affairs will be an added advantage. The job
holder will be subjected to a security vetting process, the clearance level of
which will be determined. Successful completion of the Senior Management
Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela). Experience Five 5 years of experience at a
middle/senior managerial level. Knowledge: Knowledge of and experience in
Curriculum Instructional Design for blended, virtual and face to face modes of
delivery. Knowledge of decolonizing, transformational and participatory
pedagogies. Knowledge and understanding of the Constitution, Public Service
Legislation including Skills Development Act, PFMA, MFMA and Treasury
regulations. Knowledge of SAQA processes, NQF Act, 2019 and accreditation
processes. A good theoretical and practical knowledge of best practice and
cutting-edge curriculum and materials design. Knowledge and experience of
integrating inclusivity issues in management functions. Knowledge of
emotional intelligence theory and application thereof in curriculum and
pedagogy. Knowledge of a range of methodologies for learning and
development. Good understanding of the Project management cycle,
methodologies, and tools. Knowledge of the Batho-Pele principles and their
importance in the implementation of public services. Competencies: Proven
advanced writing skills, proofreading, editing and overwriting skills.
Instructional design skills for blended, virtual and face to face courses. Proven
advanced statistical, analytical and research skills. Advanced project
management skills. Communication and liaison skills to work with different
stakeholders, both internal, external to the public service and internationally.
Digital skills to work in digital environments with digital systems, management
and reporting tools. Advanced relevant computer skills in the design and
development of ETD materials. Personal Attributes: Participate in professional
development growth activities for maintaining professional knowledge and
staying current with finance trends. Ability to multi-task and organize, prioritize,
and follow multiple projects and tasks through to completion with attention to
detail. Ability to work independently while contributing to a team environment.
Ability to analyze problems, identify solutions and take appropriate action,
resolve conflicts using independent judgment and decision-making processes.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with
management, employees, stakeholders and the public. Integrity and honesty;
detail-oriented; creative and innovative; ability to work under pressure. Travel
and work extended hours.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the following Key Results Areas:
Research and collate relevant content to inform NSG curriculum and ensure
its alignment with Constitutional Values and Principals and the objectives of the
National Framework towards the Professionalisation of the Public Sector.
Design and develop compelling course content based on applicable
international and national standards and policy to mediate capacity building
towards capable public servants. Write learning materials for face-to-face as
well as for eLearning delivery. Determine the appropriate instructional
methodologies for face-to-face and online delivery. Utilize multimedia
resources to enhance learning effectiveness. Collaborate with international
programmes and initiatives to incorporate international and global perspectives
into the curriculum. Ensure that the course materials and activities comply with
legal and ethical standards, including copyright and intellectual property rights.
Examine the course content, teaching materials, and resources to ensure they
are up-to-date and relevant. Implement a structured review and approval
workflow for curriculum changes to maintain consistency and quality. Review
data related to student performance as well as evaluation reports to identify
trends and areas for improvement. Design course content and materials
cognisant of principles and values of inclusivity and social justice. Interpret
macro policies to translate into learning content and segments. Provide
guidance and advice to curriculum developers on the interpretation of
government policy to develop learning content. Write clear, concise, and
comprehensive policy documents outlining objectives, strategies, guidelines,
and procedures for implementation. Compose and write scholarly articles and
position papers to influence NSG’s curriculum content. Develop and implement
NSG curriculum design and delivery policy in line with the objectives of the
National Framework towards the Professionalisation of the public service.
Establish a system for ongoing policy monitoring to inform NSG curriculum
content and development processes. Assess the curriculum's compliance with
43
external accreditation, regulatory, and Total Quality Management System
(TQMS) standards. Communicate TQMS policies and quality standards to all
relevant stakeholders to ensure a shared understanding. Implement a
structured review and approval workflow for curriculum changes to maintain
consistency and quality. Navigate the policy landscape to build capacity in the
development team for policy interpretation in the learning content. Identify the
specific needs and goals of learners and facilitators to tailor the curriculum
learning pathways. Define the educational goals and outcomes that the
learning pathways are intended to achieve. Evaluate the quality, credibility and
relevance of NSG’s courses towards structuring learning pathways. Organize
learning content into a logical sequence to progress from foundation to
advanced competency levels. Curate the learning pathways into manageable
learning units. Provide specifications for the institutional Learner Management
System (LMS) to enable the implementation of skills programmes, short
learning programmes and qualifications. Ensure that the learning pathways
accommodate the diverse learning needs and professional progression needs
of the NSG’s target audiences. Ensure that all materials and activities are
accessible to a diverse range of learners and address any accessibility and
inclusivity concerns. Establish quality control measures to ensure that the
courses and materials within the pathway are up-to-date and of high quality.
Update and improve the learning pathway based on feedback, changes in the
field, and evolving educational goals. Collaborate with Faculties and Technical
support services to ensure that trends and gaps are addressed in the learning
content. Liaise with quality assurance and accreditation to ensure consistency
with quality standards and accreditation requirements. Present reviewed
courses to Quality Assurance (QA) meetings. Provide the materials developers
with feedback from stakeholder consultations. Implement QA
recommendations. Report on QA recommendations and reports for
implementation. Foster a collaborative relationship with internal and external
faculty to incorporate inputs into the learning content and ensure continuous
improvement of learning material. Facilitate internal working sessions on the
latest effective teaching, facilitation methods and curriculum innovations.
Explore in collaboration with eLearning Unit innovative tools and platforms to
enhance online learner experiences. Review the technology tools, and online
resources used in the course to ensure they remain current, relevant, and
effective. Curate and update digital content and resources to keep them current
and relevant. Apply principles of instructional design to create engaging and
effective online learning experiences. Implement quality control measures to
maintain the integrity and effectiveness of online courses and materials.
Evaluate the effectiveness of the eLearning curriculum, make necessary
adjustments, and stay current with evolving eLearning trends and
technologies. Establish and manage public and private sector networks and
multi-sector relationships relevant to the subject matter area located within the
bands. Manage cross-functional projects to advance capacity development
support initiatives. Participate in capacity development interventions, including
facilitation of offerings, publications and presentation of papers. Identify
potential risks in the curriculum design and delivery process and develop
mitigation strategies. Management of people and resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
APPLICATIONS : Apply Online Via This Link: APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT DIRECTOR:
CURRICULUM SUPPORT, NSG: 11/2026. (12) – Fill out form
44
ANNEXURE I
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Mpumalanga/ Middelburg: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct
your application to: The Provincial Head: Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X20051, Mbombela, 1211. Applications can also be hand delivered to,
Mpumalanga Division of the High Court, Office of the Chief Justice Provincial
Service Centre, 311 Samora Machel Drive, Mbombela, 1200
Limpopo Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice Service
Centre, Limpopo, Private Bag X9693, Polokwane, 0700. Applications can also
be hand delivered to the High Court of South Africa: Limpopo Division,
Polokwane, 36 Biccard & Bodenstein Street, Polokwane, 0699.
Kwazulu-Natal Provincial Service Centre: Durban/ Pietermaritzburg:
Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag X54314, Durban,
4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor Office No 118, CNR
Somtseu8 & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
Eastern Cape/Mthatha/Makhanda/Gqeberha: Quoting the relevant reference
number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief
Justice, Postal Address: Private Bag X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London.
Applications can also be hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park
Building, 2nd Floor, Vincent 5242, East London.
Supreme Court of Appeal/Free State High Court: Quoting the relevant
reference number, direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the
Chief Justice, Private Bag X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver
applications to the Free State High Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein
Street, Bloemfontein, 9301
Gauteng: Provincial Service Centre: Quoting the relevant reference number,
direct your application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X7, Johannesburg, 2000. Applications can also be hand delivered
to the 12th floor, Cnr Pritchard and Kruis Street, Johannesburg.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
45
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
Erratum: Kindly note that post of Law Researcher (X2 Posts) with Ref No:
2026/05/OCJ advertised Public Service Vacancy Circular 14 dated 24 April
2026 is amended as follows: The correct centre is Labour and Labour Appeals
Court: Johannesburg and for technical related enquiries please contact: Ms F
Lukhele Tel No: (011) 494 8538. Law Researcher with Ref No: 2026/07/OCJ
advertised Public Service Vacancy Circular 14 dated 24 April 2026 is amended
as follows: The correct centre is Free State High Court: Bloemfontein, and for
technical related enquiries please contact: Mr. A. Knoetze Tel No: (051) 492
4623.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/46 : CHIEF REGISTRAR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R610 434 – R1 442 451 per annum (MR6). The successful candidates will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with
Occupation Specific Dispensation determination (Resolution 1 of 2008).
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for
determination of their experience.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of the High Court: Mthatha Ref No: 2026/11/OCJ
Eastern Cape Division of the High Court: Makhanda Ref No: 2025/12/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or equivalent
qualification. A minimum of eight (8) years’ experience as a Registrar in Legal
environment. At least eight (8) years’ post graduate legal experience gained as
a Registrar. A valid driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge
of registry duties, knowledge of legislative framework governing the public
service, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge of Quasi-Judicial, knowledge of Case flow
management, knowledge of Court documentation management and Human
Management, Batho Pele Principles, numerical Skills, problem solving skills,
decision-making skills, computer literacy (MS Office), excellent communication
skills (written and verbal), good people skills/ interpersonal relations, planning
and organizing skills, report writing skills and interviewing skills.
DUTIES : Manage the Information and case/ Court documentation Management System:
Implement information desk in the Court, develop and maintain a complaints
management system, Interface with external Court stakeholders on a regular
46
basis, Ensure that the checking of relevant registers is done in terms of the
codes. Provide support to court and caseflow management / Quasi-Judicial
functions: Develop & implement case management strategies, Review and
implement projects to improve Court efficiency regularly, implement a case/
Court documentation and information management system. Implement Service
Level Agreements and Strategic Court projects: Ensure that all J33 requests to
Service Providers are timeously returned, liaise with the service provider on a
regular basis to ensure smooth service delivery, Peruse proposed
amendments received from the rules board and provide comments, if any to
them. Provide leadership of the High Court: Develop annual institutional
performance reports & other statutory reports, give direction and guidance to
the court based on best court management practices and lead transformation
in the High court. Supervise and develop staff: Ensure general supervision of
employees, allocate duties and perform quality control on the work delivered
by officials, manage leave of staff, advise and lead supervisees with regard to
all aspects of the work.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 622 5758
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Mthatha: Applications can be sent via email to: 2026/11/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Makhanda: Applications can be sent via email to:
2026/12/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 15/47 : CHIEF REGISTRAR REF NO: 2026/13/OCJ
Re advertisement Candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply.
SALARY : R610 434 – R1 442 451 per annum (MR6). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with
Occupation Specific Dispensation Determination (Resolution 1 of 2008).
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for
determination of their experience.
CENTRE : Supreme Court of Appeal: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB degree, or a four (4) year legal
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of eight (8) years’ post
graduate experience gained as a Registrar. At least eight (8) years’ post
graduate legal experience gained as a Registrar. Proven
managerial/supervisory experience and a valid driver’s license. An LLM degree
will be an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Skills and Competencies: Report writing skills. Excellent communication skills
(written and verbal). Numerical skills, technical expertise, computer Literacy
(MS Office), attention to detail, planning, organising and control, problem
solving and decision-making skills, customer service orientated, interpersonal
skills, conflict management skills, strong work ethic and motivation, self-
management, initiative, leadership, professional appearance and conduct.
DUTIES : Mentor and advice on the tracking and management of the progression of all
cases filed in court, management of time and events necessary to move cases
from initiation through to disposition, make inputs on amendments of court
rules and practice directives to improve efficiency at the Supreme Court of
Appeal, implement directives issued by the President of the Supreme Court of
Appeal, manage implementation of the Departmental Strategic Objectives
relating to the processing of cases within the Case Flow Management
Framework at the Supreme Court of Appeal, compiling of training manuals and
providing of training to Registrars and Clerks. Stakeholder Management.
Support Court and Case Flow Management/Quasi-Judicial functions, manage
Service Level Agreement Framework, managing Strategic Court Efficiency
Projects and Best Practices, Information and Case/Court Documentation
Management System, safeguard case records in accordance with prescripts,
achieve excellence in delivering planned customer service outcomes (i.e.
service levels and standards) for the Department and monitoring the unit’s
service delivery in order to achieve the service delivery targets, ensure the
highest level of customer care and customer satisfaction, manage staff and all
HR related processes.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. M. Ndlokovane Tel No: (010) 493 2500
HR Related Enquiries Ms N. de la Rey Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2026/13/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
47
NOTE The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 15/48 : CHIEF REGISTRAR (X2 POSTS)
Re advertisement Candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply.
SALARY : R610 434 – R1 442 451 per annum (MR6). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement. Salary will be in accordance with
Occupation Specific Dispensation Determination (Resolution 1 of 2008).
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for
determination of their experience.
CENTRE : Gauteng Division of The High Court: Johannesburg Ref No: 2026/14/OCJ
Gauteng Division of The High Court: Pretoria Ref No: 2026/15/OCJ
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a Four (4) year legal
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of eight (8) years’ appropriate
post qualification legal experience and must be gained as a Registrar, At least
eight (8) years’ post graduate legal experience gained as a Registrar. A valid
driver’s license. An LLM Degree will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Skills and competencies: Report writing skills. Excellent
communication skills (written and verbal). Numerical skills, technical expertise,
computer Literacy (MS Office), attention to detail, planning, organising and
control, problem solving and decision-making skills, customer service
orientated, interpersonal skills, conflict management skills, strong work ethic
and motivation, self-management, initiative, leadership, professional
appearance and conduct.
DUTIES : Mentor and advice on the tracking and management of the progression of all
cases filed in court, management of time and events necessary to move cases
from initiation through to disposition, make inputs on amendments of court
rules and practice directives to improve efficiency at the Supreme Court of
Appeal, implement directives issued by the President of the Supreme Court of
Appeal, manage implementation of the Departmental Strategic Objectives
relating to the processing of cases within the Case Flow Management
Framework at the Supreme Court of Appeal, compiling of training manuals and
providing of training to Registrars and Clerks. Stakeholder Management.
Support Court and Case Flow Management/Quasi-Judicial functions, manage
Service Level Agreement Framework, managing Strategic Court Efficiency
Projects and Best Practices, Information and Case/Court Documentation
Management System, safeguard case records in accordance with prescripts,
achieve excellence in delivering planned customer service outcomes (i.e.
service levels and standards) for the Department and monitoring the unit’s
service delivery in order to achieve the service delivery targets, ensure the
highest level of customer care and customer satisfaction, manage staff and all
HR related processes.
ENQUIRIES : HR Enquiries: Ms T Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
Technical Enquiries: Ms R Bramdaw Tel No: (010) 494 8486 for Johannesburg;
Ms N Shandu Tel No: (010) 494 6796 for Pretoria
APPLICATIONS : Johannesburg: Applications can be sent via email to:
2026/14/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
Pretoria: Applications can be sent via email to: 2026/15/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 15/49 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
2026/16/OCJ
Re advertisement Candidates who previously applied are encouraged to
reapply.
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Provincial Service Centre: Gauteng
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Supply Chain
Management/ Economics/ Finance/ Financial Management/ Procurement/
Logistics/ Public Administration or relevant qualification at NQF Level 6 with
48
360 credits as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience
in Supply Chain Management environment of which one (01) year should be
at supervisory level. LOGIS experience will serve as an added advantage. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Demonstrate
a sound understanding of the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, Supply
Chain Management guidelines and other related Prescripts. Knowledge of
Public 66 Sector Procurement process, rules and regulations. Knowledge of
LOGIS will serve as an added advantage. Accuracy and attention to detail.
Good communication skills (written and verbal). Good administration and
organisation skills. Ability to work under pressure and Self-motivated. All
shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of
the assessment method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the
post's technical and generic requirements.
DUTIES : Coordinate Supply Chain Management Process within the Province.
Implement asset and disposal management within the province. Coordinate
contract Management process in the province. Facilitate SCM reporting for
procurement. Supervise and develop staff.
ENQUIRIES : Technical enquiries: Mr S Majola Tel No: (010) 494 8515/ HR enquiries: Ms T
Mbalekwa Tel No: (010) 494 8515
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to: 2026/16/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 15/50 : PRINCIPAL COURT INTERPRETER REF NO: 2026/17/OCJ
SALARY : R413 001 – R486 501 per annum (Level 08). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a National Diploma in Legal Interpreting
or equivalent qualification at NQF level 6 with 360 credits as recognized by
SAQA. A minimum of two (2) years’ experience as a Court Interpreter. A valid
driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Knowledge and skills: Adherence to Batho Pele and
the OCJ principles. Knowledge of Court proceedings and cultural diversity.
Knowledge of Policies, Prescripts and Legislations. Communication (oral and
written) skills and listening skills. Computer literacy (Ms Word, PowerPoint,
Outlook and Internet, etc.). Problem solving, good Interpersonal relations,
planning and organizing skills. Good people skills. Intermediate typing skills
and customer service orientation.
DUTIES : Render interpreting services in high profile matters: Interpret in complex cases.
Interpret in criminal, civil, and Labour Court. Interpret in Small claims Court.
Control, supervise and attend to personnel administrative aspects of
interpreters: Provide mentoring and coaching to junior/ senior interpreters.
Manage performance agreement contracts. Draw a schedule for replacement
of Court Interpreters. Translate Legal documents and exhibits: Study and
analyse the source documents. Conduct necessary research and consult.
Check, edit and revise the translated documents. Procure foreign language
interpreters and casuals in line with PFMA and the relevant policy: Report
statistics to be generated and escalated to the cluster manager for
consolidation. Authorise payment of foreign language interpreters and casuals.
Develop terminology: Harvest of terminology and database development.
Provide terms and their respective meanings in the glossary register. Supervise
and develop staff: Ensure general supervision of employees. Allocate duties
and perform quality control on the work delivered by officials.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr M Mhlontlo Tel No: (047) 504 5500
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/17/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 15/51 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2026/18/OCJ
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Mpumalanga Division of The High Court: Middelburg
49
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a minimum of 20
modules completed towards an LLB, BA/BCOM Law. A minimum of one (01)
year secretarial experience or as an office assistant. Experience in a Legal/
Court environment and a valid driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and skills: Knowledge on the Constitution of South Africa. Knowledge of
relevant legislatives and regulations. Knowledge of case lines. Knowledge of
Court online. Knowledge of secretariat prescripts, responsibilities, systems and
procedures. Knowledge of Electronic Information Resource and online
retrieval. Batho Pele Principles. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Planning and organisational skills. Exceptional Interpersonal skills. Customer
service skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing. Time
management skills, proficiency in Microsoft Office programs, research
capabilities and problem solving. Good Judgment and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Render Secretarial support to the Judiciary: Diarise the appointments and
meetings of the Judge, type and file the judgments. Ensure the judgments that
are handed down (delivered), signed draft orders granted in Court or virtually
are sent to the typist for scanning, upload unto Case-lines/Court-Online and
the Library. Provide support functions to civil, criminal and review
matters/Courts and case allocations in chambers: Collect the files before the
commencement of a criminal matter from the Registrar’s office at the criminal
section, update the register of reviews and sign on receipt to return the reviews
to the Clerk. Ensure that the register/template of the reserved judgement is
updated and notify the Statistics Officer and the office of the Judge President
when judgment has been handed down. Provide support functions to civil /
criminal courts: Administer the correct Oath ID or declaration in Court, when
required, ensure that the bench book of the Judge is prepared and files are
taken by Ushers to Court before the commencement of the proceedings.
Provide general administrative support to the Judiciary: Ensure that all the
travel, accommodation arrangements are in order and attend to sign the
documents for approval. Ensure that the Judge’s logbook is submitted on or
before the 5th of every month to the Transport Officer. Ensure that the car is
booked for either maintenance and service, receive the pre-authorisation for
the Judge’s vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms DY Seswene Tel No: (013) 492 2213
HR Related Enquiries: Mr SJ Zwane/ MV Maeko Tel No: (013) 758 0000
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/18/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 15/52 : JUDGE’S SECRETARY REF NO: 2026/19/OCJ
SALARY : R338 106 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a minimum of 20
modules completed towards an LLB, BA/BCOM Law. A minimum of one (01)
year secretarial experience or as an office assistant. Experience in a Legal/
Court environment and a valid driver’s license will serve as an added
advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry practical
exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements. Knowledge
and skills: Knowledge on the Constitution of South Africa. Knowledge of
relevant legislatives and regulations. Knowledge of case lines. Knowledge of
court online. Knowledge of secretariat prescripts, responsibilities, systems and
procedures. Knowledge of Electronic Information Resource and online
retrieval. Batho Pele Principles. Communication skills (verbal and written).
Planning and organisational skills. Exceptional Interpersonal skills. Customer
service skills and excellent typing skills including Dictaphone typing. Time
management skills, proficiency in Microsoft Office programs, research
capabilities and problem solving. Good Judgment and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Render Secretarial support to the Judiciary: Diarise the appointments and
meetings of the Judge, type and file the judgments and ensure the Judgments
that are handed down (delivered), signed draft orders granted in Court or
virtually are sent to the Typist for scanning, upload unto Case-lines/Court-
Online and the Library. Provide support functions to Civil, Criminal and review
matters/courts and case allocations in chambers: Collect the files before the
50
commencement of a Criminal matter from the Registrar’s office at the Criminal
section, keep updating the register of reviews and sign on receipt to return the
reviews to the Clerk and ensure that the register/template of the reserved
judgement is updated and notify the Statistics Officer and the office of the
Judge President when judgment has been handed down. Provide support
functions to civil / criminal courts: Administer the correct Oath ID or declaration
in court, when required and ensure that the bench book of the Judge is
prepared and files are taken by Ushers to Court before the commencement of
the proceedings. Provide general administrative support to the Judiciary:
Ensure that all the travel, accommodation arrangements are in order and
attend to sign the documents for approval. Ensure that the Judge’s logbook is
submitted on or before the 5th of every month to the Transport Officer and
ensure that the car is booked for either maintenance and service, receive the
pre-authorisation for the Judge’s vehicle.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr M Mhlontlo Tel No: (047) 504 5500
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/19/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 15/53 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2026/20/OCJ
SALARY : R337 563 - R1 155 777 per annum (MR3-MR5), (Salary to be determined in
accordance with experience as per OSD salary determination). Salary will be
in accordance with Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008).
Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit a service certificate/s for
determination of their experience. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal Division of The High Court: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a four (4) year Legal
qualification. A minimum of two (2) years’ legal experience obtained after
qualification. MR3: LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 2 years post
qualification experience in legal profession. MR4: LLB Degree or equivalent
plus minimum of 8 years post qualification experience in legal profession. MR5:
LLB Degree or equivalent plus a minimum of 14 years post qualification
experience in legal profession. Superior court or litigation experience will be an
added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Excellent communication skills (verbal and written),
Computer literacy, Numerical skills, Attention to detail, Planning, organizing
and controlling. Problem solving and decision-making skills. Customer service
orientated, Interpersonal skills, conflict management, strong work ethics and
professionalism. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Results
driven, Honesty/Trustworthy and Observance of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Manage and execute quasi-judicial functions. Co-ordination of Case Flow
Management support process to the Judiciary and Prosecution. Manage the
issuing of all processes. Initiating Court Proceedings. Co-ordinate, interpreting
services, appeals and reviews. Process unopposed divorces and facilitation of
pre-trial conferences. Quality checks on Criminal Record Book. Authenticate
signatures of Legal Practitioners, Notaries and Sworn Translators. Supervision
and management of staff. Provide practical training and assistance to the
Registrars’ Clerks. Ensure annotation of relevant publications, codes, acts and
rules. Attend to and execute requests from the Judiciary in connection with
cases and case related matters. Exercise control over the management and
safekeeping of case records and the record room. Deal with the files in terms
of the relevant codes and Legislation.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr MN Zondi Tel No: (033) 345 8211
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/20/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 15/54 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 2026/21/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Makhanda
51
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. No experience is required. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations
2016 as amended. Public Service Act 1994.Understanding of confidentiality in
Government. Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to
capture data, operate computer and collect statistics. Knowledge of the MS
Office package, with experience in word processing, Outlook, Power Point and
Excel Knowledge of Office Administration. Knowledge and understanding of
the legislative framework governing Public Service. Knowledge of Batho Pele
principles. Communication skills (verbal & written). Problem solving skills.
Good public relations skills. Monitoring and analytical skills. Computer Literacy
skills (MS Teams). Planning and organizing skills. Report writing and typing
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data. Update registers and statistics. Receive,
determine nature of request/documents and distribute all incoming and
outgoing documents and follow-up on outstanding matters. Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component. Handle sub-inventory
controller for the manager’s office. Liaise with internal and external
stakeholders in relation to procurement of goods and services. Handle the
procurement of standard office items like stationery, refreshments, etc. by
obtaining quotations and completing procurement forms. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel records and
attendance register within the component. Make suitable travel arrangements
and check that the relevant documentation on receipts corresponds with the
arrangements (e.g. accommodation, flight scheduling, passports, visas, etc.).
Provide administrative support service. Provide logistical arrangements to
meetings. Provide secretariat support services to the meetings and compile
minutes and memos.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms L Frazer Tel No: (046) 603 5000
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/21/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 15/55 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO:2026/22/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Limpopo Division of The High Court: Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of one (1) year relevant
experience/Understanding of process and petition procedures/Appropriate
experience in general administration or court related functions and valid
driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment
method to determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical
and generic requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of working
procedures in terms of the working environment, knowledge of registry
processes and practice, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of the working environment, knowledge and understanding of legislative
frameworks governing the Public Service, knowledge of Filling system, Mail
procedure manual, Promotion of access to information Act and National
archives, Batho Pele Principles, Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office),
Communication skills, numeracy, Interpersonal skills, problem solving and
analysis skills, time management skills. and administrative skills.
DUTIES : Perform clerical and administrative work within the Court, register/ allocate
case numbers to all pleadings and Court documents received. Ensure that the
files have been served on all parties concerned, draw up files for the
litigants/Attorney. Update the file of return service/s proof services. Safe-keep
and dispose of case records. Handle court request files. Retrieve the requested
file and make the file available to the requester. Attend to queries from parties
and members of the public, Record documents received, ensure systematical
recording of court files, keep record of requests received from litigants, render
52
case management duties. Attend to case management and set down notice,
implement case management practices (placing request forms in the space of
a file that has been requested, complete and file the movement sheet), render
case management duties. Monitor files and records as per the case
Management, provide support with administrative registrar, submit leave forms
to HR for compliance, maintain and keep all registers for filing and archiving,
comply with the telephone prescripts and leave policies, prepare and sign
performance agreement timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms. MMG Phaswane Tel No: (015) 495 1812
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. E.M Ramaphakela Tel No: (015) 495 1744
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/22/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 15/56 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO:2026/23/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification as recognised by SAQA. No experience required. A valid driver’s
license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall
undertake a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to
determine the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment, knowledge of registry processes and
practice, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge and understanding of legislative frameworks
governing the Public Service, knowledge of Filling system, Mail procedure
manual, Promotion of access to information Act and National archives, Batho
Pele Principles, Computer Literacy skills (Microsoft Office), Communication
skills, numeracy, Interpersonal skills, problem solving and analysis skills, time
management skills. and administrative skills.
DUTIES : Perform clerical and administrative work within the Court, register/ allocate
case numbers to all pleadings and Court documents received. Ensure that the
files have been served on all parties concerned, draw up files for the
litigants/Attorney. Update the file of return service/s proof services. Safe-keep
and dispose of case records. Handle court request files. Retrieve the requested
file and make the file available to the requester. Attend to queries from parties
and members of the public, Record documents received, ensure systematically
recording of court files, keep record of requests received from litigants, render
case management duties. Attend to case management and set down notice,
implement case management practices (placing request forms in the space of
a file that has been requested, complete and file the movement sheet), render
case management duties. Monitor files and records as per the case
Management, provide support with administrative registrar, submit leave forms
to HR for compliance, maintain and keep all registers for filing and archiving,
comply with the telephone prescripts and leave policies, prepare and sign
performance agreement timeously.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mrs K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 4931723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/23/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 15/57 : DATA CAPTURER REF NO: 2026/24/OCJ
SALARY : R201 093 - R236 877 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division of The High Court: Gqeberha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification. No experience required. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
a pre-entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine
the candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic
requirements. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as
well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collect statistics,
knowledge of the MS Office package with experience in word processing,
Outlook, Power Point and Excel Knowledge of Office Administration,
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing Public
53
Service, Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, knowledge and understanding of the legal framework governing the
Public Service, knowledge of working procedures in terms of the working
environment, knowledge on HAST program and records management,
knowledge of Batho Pele principles, communication skills (verbal & written),
problem solving skills, good public relations skills, monitoring and analytical
skills, planning and organizing skills, report writing skills, Typing skills.
DUTIES : Render data capturing service. Capture data from available records into the
required formats e.g. databases, table, spreadsheet, verify, query missing data
and errors observed during data entry, review and validate all data from the
records, conduct pre-recording and record of Court proceedings, report faults
experienced during diagnosing process and log queries to helpdesk capture
Court roll from the Court list/ books and pre-schedule the cases prior to
commencement of the Court proceedings, record Court proceedings as per the
level of court appearance, render efficient and effective general administrative
services, save and scan court documents as requested, report all IT problems
immediately to supervisor, provide information to responsible components,
verify and quality control data, review and validate all data from the records,
sort and distribute incoming data to be captured equally, update registers and
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms P Boya-Nyhiba Tel No: (041) 502 6626
HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/24/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goal
POST 15/58 : TYPIST REF NO: 2026/25/OCJ
SALARY : R201 093 – R236 877 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal Division of The High Court: Pietermaritbzurg
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. No
experience required. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of legal terminology, Court procedures, rules
and environment, counter services, filing system, understanding of legislatives
governing the Public Service (Batho Pele & PSR), knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles, computer literacy (Microsoft Office), typing skills (speed 35 words
per minute) good communication skills (written and verbal), good interpersonal
relations, planning and organization skills, good problem-solving skills,
accuracy and attention to details, ability to work under pressure, good time
keeping and telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Type Court orders, Court documents and reports: Type appeals, reviews,
memorandums, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set downs, witness
statements and taxing master reports, type Rule 6(12) orders and make them
available in terms of the rule. type judgments, sort and distribute incoming and
outgoing files, make amendments on judgments as per judges’
request/instruction, compile term roll, week roll and un/opposed motion roll and
maintain registers, draft term rolls for each Court term in line with the Gazetted
terms, type supplementary rolls, compile and submit relevant orders and
judgments to relevant stakeholders, send all judgments provided to the typing
unit in the required format to the elected person (for reporting purposes on
Saflii).
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr MN Zondi Tel No: (033) 345 8211
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 493 1723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/25/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goal.
54
ANNEXURE J
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted: Via e-mail to applications@thedtic.gov.za (Ref
no. must appear in subject-line – if no reference no. is provided the application
may not be considered), by post to The Director: Human Resources
Management, Private Bag X84, Pretoria, 0001; Hand-delivered to the dtic
Campus, corner of Meintjies and Robert Sobukwe Streets, Sunnyside,
Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : The application must include a completed and signed new Z83 Form,
obtainable from any Public Service Department, the dtic website or on the
internet at www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Applications received
that do not comply with this requirement will not be considered. Certified copies
of qualifications and Identity Document or any other relevant documents are to
be submitted by only shortlisted candidates to HR on or before the day of the
interview date. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
panel for Senior Management Services (SMS) positions will further recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency-based assessment.
The Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela Programme) as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) must be completed
before an appointment on SMS level can be considered. The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following
link:https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme. No
appointment on SMS level will take place without the successful completion of
the pre-entry certificate and submission of proof thereof. Background
verification, social media checks and security vetting will form part of the
selection process and successful candidates will be subjected to security
vetting. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications
received after the closing date will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within 3
months of the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The dtic reserves the right not to fill any
advertised position(s). The dtic is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer, and candidates whose appointment will promote representivity, will
be given preference.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/59 : DIRECTOR: INVESTMENT PROJECTS REF NO: IFB-111
Overview: To drive economic growth by attracting, facilitating and retaining
investment through supporting businesses to have greater uptake of our
incentive schemes in order for businesses to expand, become competitive and
create jobs.
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Sunnyside, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by the SAQA in Economics /
Commerce or relevant qualification. 5 years' experience at middle / senior
managerial level in economic environment in public / public sector. Key
Requirements: Proven experience in investment promotion, incentives
administration or project management at senior level. Track record of
stakeholder management with government, DFIs and private sector partners.
Experience in investment marketing, lead generation and investor facilitation.
Strong research, analytical and report writing skills (performance and project
evaluation). Experience in managing financial resources and basic budget
oversight. Programme and project - management experience, including
monitoring and evaluation. Ability to represent the department at high level
forums and manage public presentations. Computer literate (MS Office);
familiarity with CRM or MIS for tracking investor pipelines. -
DUTIES : Stakeholder management and partnerships: Coordinate support with
government entities, build and maintain partnerships with finance institutions,
industry bodies and private sector partners. Develop stakeholder engagement
55
plans and maintain strong relationships to support investment uptake.
Investment marketing and lead generation. Direct investment marketing
campaigns; identify and evaluate investment promotion projects; coordinate
inward/outward missions and investor engagements. Business support and
advisory services: Provide technical support and advisory services to
companies to access incentive schemes; assist with finance access,
governance and compliance guidance. Research and analysis: Manage
analysis of the unit’s performance; provide inputs to research related to
incentive schemes and ensure schemes are fit for purpose. Directorate
management: Manage strategic planning, human and financial resources for
the directorate; maintain proper record keeping and manage the business unit
risk register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Pitse Tel No: (012) 394 1563 / L Mdashe Tel No: (012) 394 3103 / V
Mazibuko Tel No: (012) 394 5608
NOTE : In terms of the dtic's EE requirements, preference will be given to African
female, African male, White male and persons with disabilities.
56
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
Department of Transport is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer with clear employment
equity targets. Preference will be given to candidates whose appointment will assist the department in
achieving its Employment Equity targets at these specific levels in terms of the Department’s
Employment Equity Plan, therefore White male / female, Coloured male/ female, Indian male / female and
people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Transport, Private Bag X193, Pretoria, 0001 or hand deliver at
the 159 Forum Building, Cnr Struben and Bosman Street, Pretoria for attention
Recruitment Unit. Room 4034 or email to: Recruitment@dot.gov.za or at e-
recruitment system: erecruit.transport.gov.za. Note: email applications must be
sent as one attachment to avoid non-delivery of the email and only quotes the
name of the post you are applying for on the Subject Line as directed on the
post note.
CLOSING DATE : 05 June 2026
NOTE : Applications must be accompanied by a completed new Z83 form, obtainable
from any Public Service Department, (or obtainable at). Applicants must fill in
full new Z83 form part A, B, C, and D. A recent updated comprehensive CV
(previous experience must be comprehensively detailed, i.e. positions held and
dates). Applicants will submit certified copies of all qualifications and ID
document on the day of the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority
(SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process; the
logistics will be communicated to candidates prior to the interviews.
Recommended candidates will also be required to attend a Psychometric
Assessments as part of the recruitment process. Recommended candidates
will also be required to generic managerial competency assessment after the
interviews also take a note that National School of Governance (NGS) has
introduce compulsory SMS pre-entry certificate with effect from 01 April 2020
as Minimum Entry Requirements for Senior Management Services (submitted
prior to appointment) and can be accessed through the following link:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. The
competency assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies
using the mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. The
successful candidate must disclose to the Director-General particulars of all
registrable financial interests, sign a performance agreement and employment
contract with the Director-General within three months from the date of
assumption of duty. The successful candidate must be willing to sign an oath
of secrecy with the Department. Applicants will be expected to be available for
selection interviews and assessments at a time, date and place as determined
by the Department. An offer letter will only be issued to the successful
candidate once the following has been verified educational qualifications,
previous experience, citizenship, reference checks and security vetting. Please
note: Correspondence will only be entered into with short-listed candidates.
ERRATUM: Assistant Director: Income with Ref: DOT/HR/2026/08, The
following note applies to the above-mentioned post advertised in this
publication, Public Service Vacancy Circular 08 dated 06 March 2026 with the
incorrect job tittle. Please see the correct job tittle below; Assistant Director:
Income and Expenditure, Branch: Administration; Office of the Chief Financial
Officer Enquiries: Mr S Ntobeng Tel No: (012) 309 3465
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/60 : SENIOR SPECIALIST: STATE-OWNED COMPANIES (SOC) RISK
PROFILING AND MITIGATION REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/26
Branch: SOC GAP
Chief Directorate: Governance Services
SALARY : R1 494 900 per annum (Level 14) of which 30% may be structured according
to the individual needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognized by SAQA in Risk
Management / Auditing / Law / Accounting / Business Management with 5
years relevant experience at a senior managerial level in risk management,
57
fraud risk or internal auditing. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of Enterprise Risk Management concepts, frameworks and
methodologist. Knowledge in Company Law, King IV and ethics. Knowledge of
Public Service Anti-Corruption Strategy and measures. Knowledge of the
National Treasury Risk Management Framework. Communication. Financial
Management. Strategic Capability & leadership. People Management &
Empowerment. (PME). Project Programme Management. Client Orientation
and Customer focus. Change Management.
DUTIES : Manage the development and maintenance of the Shareholder’s Risk
Management Governance Structure, framework, policies and Instruments;
Develop institutional capacity for the performance of independent
Shareholder’s risk management function, including policies and instruction;
Review, design develop and implement the Shareholder’s risk management
policies, strategies and practice notes for the SOC Group. Manage and
coordinate the implementation of Shareholder’s enterprise wide risk
management framework; Manage oversee and account for the development
and implementation of the SOC Risk Management Plan; Provide technical
support during individual SOC performance review sessions. Oversee and
coordinate fraud and anti-corruption measures in SOC’s short, medium and
long term risks associated to SOC operations and planned transformation and
business enhancement projects. Oversee and direct the development of a
SOC fraud prevention and anti-corruption policy framework, strategy and
instruction; Coordinate special investigation initiated by the shareholder related
to allegations of major non-compliance with anti-corruption, fraud and ethics
standards by SOC Boards and report thereon. Development and implement a
risk assessment framework to assess applications by SOCs for financial
instruments requiring the approval of the Shareholder. Analyse applications by
SOCs in the Group for financial instructions with a view to define the
shareholder risk profile/exposure; Direct at a technical level and in
collaboration with the management structures of the relevant SOC and
counterparts in National Treasury develop mitigation strategies to address the
identified shareholder risk. Coordinate and advise the shareholder on risks
associated with board resolutions and mitigation strategies for resolutions
outside the entity’s founding legislation. Develop and manage a resolution risk
register for all entities and advise shareholder on the risks associated with
unlawful resolution; Advise shareholders of any risk that could impact business
operations and strategic goals; Manage the resources of the Chief Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Molatelo Motsepe Tel No: (012) 309 3851
POST 15/61 : DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFOMANCE
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOT/HRM/2026/20
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), of which 30% can be
structured according to individual’s needs.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A qualification at NQF 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA in Human
Resource Development / Human Resource Management / Management of
Training / Industrial Psychology with a minimum of 5 year’s working experience
at a middle/senior managerial level within the Human Resource Development
environment.
DUTIES : Manage and monitor the implementation of Skills Development Act, Bursary
and Internship/Learnerships programmes; Monitor the compliance of training
programmes with relevant legislation; coordinate and develop departmental
workplace skills plan. Coordinate and facilitate the training and development of
employees; Develop training and development policies and programmes;
Provide skills audits; Oversee the administration of bursaries; Recruit and
select prospective bursary holders; Process bursary payments. Manage and
implement performance management systems; Maintain and review the
performance Management and Development Systems (PMDS) and Employee
Performance Management Systems (EPMS) of the Department; Develop and
implement a strategic performance management process. Manage the
resources of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Gcina Tel No: (012) 309 3591
58
ANNEXURE L
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Psychometric Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the National Treasury processing your information for Human
Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have
all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level certificates) evaluated
by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at your own expense.
Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or to put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za .The National
Treasury is compliant with the requirements of POPIA.
59
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/62 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND JUSTICE (IDC) REF
NO: S058/2026
Division: Budget Office (BO)
Purpose: To support the management of Official Development Assistance
(ODA) to the South African Government, and promotion of sound ODA
management.
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent to NQF level 6) in
Economic Sciences or Social Sciences or Development Studies. A Bachelor’s
degree in any of the above disciplines is added advantage (equivalent to NQF
level 7). A minimum 4 years’ experience of which 2 years should be at an
Assistant Director level or equivalent working experience obtained in
programme and portfolio management. Knowledge and experience of public
policy development and implementation. Knowledge and experience of
developmental management.
DUTIES : Coordination, ownership and management of ODA: Ensure the alignment of
ODA to South African policies and procedures within the facilitation of ODA
commitments to SA– facilitation of programming. Arrange the record keeping
of meetings with donor and South African Government representatives
involved in particular donor programmes. Manage the routing, tracking and
workflow administration of all international agreements processed through
OCSLA, DIRCO and the Presidency, including exchange of letters and no-
objections, in coordination with the relevant Directors and Portfolio Managers.
Manage the tabling of international agreements and related instruments in
Parliament, including process coordination, compliance tracking and liaison
with relevant internal stakeholders. Agreements and Compliance Process
Administration: Serve as the process owner for the agreements and
compliance workflow, ensuring that all international agreements, exchange of
letters, no-objections, and related instruments are routed, tracked and filed in
accordance with applicable requirements. Coordinate the processing of
Foreign Donor Funded Projects (FDFP) requests, maintaining a current and
accurate register of backlog and new applications and liaising with the
Directorate: Indirect Tax as required. Maintain the compliance calendar and
workflow tracker for all internal governance requirements, including risk, audit,
and expenditure reporting cycles, in coordination with the relevant officials
within the unit. Programme Delivery: Ensure that processes within the unit
ensure that programme delivery is not hampered, through the RDP Fund, as
well as governance, compliance and operational matters. Liaise/ negotiate with
stakeholders within National Treasury (Public Finance, IGR, ALM, EPIC), lead
sector national departments and entities, provincial and local government
decision-makers and ODA project managers, and relevant donors regarding
the consolidation of ODA programmes. Strengthen the ODA Knowledge Base:
Implement database to feed into the knowledge management processes.
Support best practices of ODA management within the sector. Alignment of
ODA to Budget: Support processes that will enhance programming, reporting
and alignment of ODA to budget. RDP Fund Operational Administration: Serve
as primary owner of the RDP Fund operational administration process,
including the receipt and processing of deposit notifications and surrenders,
preparation and dispatch of allocation letters to the Office of the Accountant-
General, and management of drawdown requests, payment files and
requisitions, with administrative support provided by the team assistant.
Monitor and follow through on the resolution of RDP Fund implementation
issues, escalating substantive matters to the relevant Director and ensuring
that operational bottlenecks are resolved in a timely manner in coordination
with the Office of the Accountant-General. Maintain accurate records of all RDP
Fund transactions, correspondence and operational files, ensuring that
documentation standards meet audit and compliance requirements, and that
the team assistant is directed and supported in carrying out related
administrative tasks.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
60
POST 15/63 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: MULTI-MEDIA AND PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT
REF NO: S051/2026
Division: Corporate Services (CS)
Purpose: To provide advanced technical leadership in the conceptualisation,
design, and layout of multimedia content while managing a team of designers
to ensure high-impact visual communication aligned with strategic
departmental objectives.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) in Multimedia Design or Communication. A Bachelor’s degree
(equivalent to NQF level 7) will be an added advantage. A minimum 4 years’
experience of which 2 years should be at an Assistant Director level or
equivalent obtained in design management
DUTIES : Design Leadership and Execution: Interpret complex design briefs and
generate high-impact concepts that directly support the Department’s strategic
communication objectives and key messaging. Lead the design, layout, and
branding of National Treasury print and electronic publications ensuring all
outputs adhere to the GCIS National Communication Framework guidelines
and segmentation models. Provide creative direction for departmental
campaigns, ensuring all visual assets align with both the Corporate ID of the
Department and Government to maintain institutional consistency. Implement
and monitor a rigorous quality assurance process to ensure all design and
multimedia outputs meet professional standards and technical specifications
before final approval. Team Management and supervision: Supervise a team
of designers (and photographers/videographers) throughout all production
phases, managing workflow escalations and ensuring compliance with the
Design Studio’s governance framework. Review team outputs (scripts,
graphics, and videos) to ensure visual narratives align with departmental
objectives and accurately interpret complex subject matter. Manage and
oversee the creative process, ensuring the National Treasury brand is
consistently represented and that the team maintains up-to-date technical skills
through continuous internal knowledge sharing. Multimedia and Digital
Oversight: Manage the Governance of the digital asset library on OneDrive,
ensuring intellectual property management and strict adherence to file naming
conventions for seamless retrieval. Implement technical quality standards and
intellectual property protocols within OneDrive to manage copyright
compliance and licensing for all photography, video, and stock assets.
Research, pilot, and integrate innovative multimedia technologies and AI-
driven tools to develop new visual communication methodologies that improve
studio efficiency. Stakeholder and Project Coordination: Lead high-level
stakeholder consultations with subject matter experts to translate objectives
into storyboards, ensuring technical accuracy in the visual representation of
data and content. Coordinate the synchronisation of visual assets with the
Media and Social Media teams, ensuring project timelines on Monday.com
align with the National Communication Framework and major milestones
(Budget/MTBPS). Manage the production lifecycle by utilising Monday.com for
strategic resource allocation, monitoring turnaround times, and managing
stakeholder expectations at a project level.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 15/64 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CASH MANAGEMENT REF NO: S048/2026
Division: Asset And Liability Management (ALM)
Purpose: To manage liquidity, ensuring that sufficient funds are available to
meet Government’s expenditure requirements.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum, (excluding benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF level 6) in Accounting, Economics or Finance. A Bachelor’s Degree
(equivalent to NQF 7) in any of the above disciplines is added advantage. A
minimum 3 years’ experience obtained in Finance environment. Knowledge
and experience in cash management.
DUTIES : Cash flow forecasting: Forecast cash flows over the short, medium, and long
term on a monthly and daily basis. Ongoing review of cash flow statements in
line with reporting standards. Manage bridging finance facilities to cover short-
term liquidity shortfalls. Perform “Inday” cash flow forecasts for the
government’s net cash requirements. Prepare procedure manuals for
61
undocumented processes and attend to audit requests. Update and monitor
actual cash flow against reported projected cash flow – variance analysis and
follow up with relevant parties. Maintain schedules of non-tax revenue receipts,
analyse and recommend forecasting improvements. Convene and maintain
records of meetings with (the South African Revenue Service (SARS) on
forecasting of tax revenue. Maintain close contact with departments to improve
cash flow forecasts. Manage Exchequer investments: Maintain signing
arrangements and FICA documents for investment accounts. Maintain daily
investment limits in the Tax and Loan accounts utilising the prescribed credit
risk ratios/limits and assessing the reasonableness of interest earned in the
exchequer accounts. Maintain cash book for investment accounts and develop
procedure manuals for undocumented processes. Provide inputs and attend to
audit queries. Record and reconcile interest earnings on all Exchequer
investment accounts; Tax and Loan accounts, investments in the Corporation
for Public Deposits (CPD) accounts, and foreign currency deposits. Engage
stakeholders and participate in projects for the automation of manual
processes (Exchequer Accounts) and provide inputs to entities and
departments on application process of opening a bank account. Optimise the
use of broader public sector cash: Maintain cash books and reporting
statements of Corporation for Public Deposits (CPD) accounts. Monitor daily
CPD balances and reconcile with SARB. Arrange meetings with the South
African Reserve Bank (SARB) to agree on the optimal borrowing/ investments
of CPD cash. Engage with provinces and other CPD depositors regarding cash
flows on their accounts. Maintain forecasting of balances in CPD to ensure
that money in CPD is sufficiently utilised. Assist with CPD projects. Execute
daily bank account transactions: Perform “Inday” cash transfer transactions
between the Exchequer and the Tax and Loan accounts. Perform transactions
between the government’s cash management accounts at SARB. Account for
all bank account transactions, including fund requisitions, transfer/ payment
advice, and reconciliations. Maintain business continuity processes to ensure
that banking transactions are conducted. Perform weekly, monthly, and yearly
reconciliation of all figures and submit to stakeholders. Attend cash
management activities that might require attention from time to time.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
62
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required
to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police clearance
certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The Department of
Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996
(Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/65 : NATIONAL PROJECT MANAGER REF NO: 220526/01
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management
Cd: Water Services Infrastructure Development Grants
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Social Science, Economic and Management Science,
Environmental Management, Project Management or relevant undergraduate
qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five (5) years
of experience at middle/senior management in water services, infrastructure
project management, or grant-funded development programs. Experience in
managing water and sanitation infrastructure projects. Strong understanding of
water sector policies, regulations, and grant management frameworks.
Experience working with government departments and sector partners such as
DCoG, MISA and NT, municipalities, water boards, or development partners.
Strong knowledge of financial oversight, procurement processes, and project
reporting. Excellent stakeholder coordination and leadership skills Sound
knowledge and understanding of public management. Knowledge of water
services management. Understanding of DoRA, PFMA and legislative regime.
Strategic capacity and leadership. Understanding of project and programme
management. Knowledge of financial, change and people management.
Service delivery and innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
63
DUTIES : Lead and facilitate the planning, coordination, and implementation of water
services grant programs at the national level. Ensure effective management
and oversight of water infrastructure grant funding, including budgeting and
financial monitoring. Support municipalities and implementing agencies in
planning, procurement, and delivery of water and sanitation projects. Monitor
project progress to ensure compliance with grant conditions, government
regulations, and reporting requirements. Review and approve project
implementation plans, budgets, and technical reports. Coordinate with national
and local government authorities, water boards, and stakeholders. Ensure
timely technical and financial reporting on grant utilization and project
performance. Conduct site visits, monitoring, and evaluation of water services
projects. Identify risks affecting project implementation and develop mitigation
strategies. Promote sustainable water management practices and
infrastructure development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Nkuna Tel No: (012) 336 8194
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/66 : DEPUTY PROJECT MANAGER: WATER SERVICES INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMENT AND REFURBISHMENT PROGRAMMES REF NO:
220526/02
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management: MP
Cd: Provincial Operations Mpumalanga
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 qualification in Civil Engineering or a postgraduate
diploma in Project Management. Five (5) years managerial experience in
engineering project management environment. Experience in infrastructure
related projects (Planning and construction). The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license. Possesses a broad understanding of water and
sanitation project implementation. Effective management and leadership skills.
Proficient in computer programs, preferably MS Office Software (Word, Excel
and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Provide support in the implementation of water services infrastructure grant
programmes in the provincial operations. Provide support in the development
of project planning by participating in feasibility studies, implementation
studies, technical reports and design. Promote partnerships between
government, public entities, private sector and civil society regarding water
services infrastructure grant programmes. Assure that water services
infrastructure grant programmes are budgeted for in medium term expenditure
framework. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of all water services
infrastructure development programmes in the provincial operations. Fast track
integrated regional bulk planning and implementation processes to ensure that
implementation targets are met. Confirm the governance and
intergovernmental structures for service delivery in the region. Define and
determine the roles and responsibilities of the different water sector role
players within the Water Targets and Regional Bulk Programme
implementation. Respond to queries by water services management and
stakeholders. Ensure project implementation and financial management,
coordination and planning; Ensure the finalization of project readiness studies.
(Project ready for implementation, Priority Projects not ready for
implementation, Future project nomination and prioritization, ensuring
alignment with other programmes). Coordination of project specific feasibility
studies and implementation planning; Compile monthly, Quarterly and Annually
progress reports on the implementation of regional bulk infrastructure projects.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Matiso Tel No: (013) 759 7330/Ms FM Mkhwanazi Tel No: (013) 759
7515/Ms PC Ngwamba, Tel No: (013) 759 7446/Mr E Pinga Tel No: (013) 759
7575
POST 15/67 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: WATER SERVICES MACRO STRATEGY RESEARCH
AND EVALUATION REF NO: 220526/03
Branch: Water and Sanitation Services Management
Dir: Water Services Macro Strategy Research and Evaluation
SALARY : R1 101 468 per annum (Level 12), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) in Public Policy, Social Science,
Development Studies, Public Administration, or relevant qualification as
64
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience in the water and
sanitation sector policy development and strategy. Knowledge and experience
in policy and strategy development and implementation. Knowledge and
understanding of all the relevant legislation including Water Act, PFMA, etc.
Knowledge in assessment of the sector performance on water and sanitation
policies Knowledge and understanding of government planning frameworks
and timelines. Knowledge in supporting legislative reviews, analysis and advise
on amendments. Good communication skills both (verbal and written).
Understanding of strategic capacity and leadership. Knowledge in programme
and project management. Understanding of financial, change and knowledge
management. Service delivery and innovation. Problem solving and analysis.
People management and empowerment. Client orientation and customer
focus. Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the development, implementation, assessment and review of the
strategic framework for water services. Engage and collaborate with
stakeholders to ensure alignment, participation and responsiveness in strategy
execution. Develop and review the Socio-Economic Impact Assessment
System (SEIAS) reports. Coordinate the preparation and submission of SEIAS
reports for all proposed water and sanitation policies, legislation and
regulations. Conduct water and sanitation research to inform evidence-based
macro strategies. Identify water and sanitation services strategy research
areas and advise water research programmes. Manage the evaluation of
macro strategy implementation in line with the departmental evaluation plan.
Monitor the implementation of evaluation recommendations to strengthen
strategy performance, accountability and service delivery outcomes.
Coordinate water and sanitation services macro strategy advocacy. Manage
resources: human resource, financial and risk management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Ndlovu Tel No: (012) 336 7391
POST 15/68 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE COMMUNICATION REF NO: 220526/04
Branch: Corporate Support Services
Cd: Corporate Communication
Re-advertisement, applicants who have previously applied must re-apply.
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA in Graphic Design Five (5)
years of managerial experience at (Assistant Director) level in a
communications environment. Knowledge in graphic design and multimedia
production. Knowledge in public administration. Knowledge of design
principles, techniques and tools. Knowledge of the writing process reviewing
and proofreading. Proven experience in the designing of Annual Reports,
Annual Performance Plan, other corporate publications and multimedia.
Understanding of water sector legislation. Knowledge of financial management
and PFMA. Knowledge of techniques and procedures for the planning and
execution of operations. Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity
management. Client orientation and customer focus. Good communication
skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the department’s media and multimedia production initiatives. Develop
and implement media production plans. Develop and guide implementation of
annual graphic design and multimedia production deliverables. Analyse annual
departmental graphic design and multimedia production needs. Develop and
guide implementation of creative concepts and products for departmental
campaigns. Generic unit management outputs. Manage human resource
discipline within the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Mathebula Tel No: (012) 336 7387/8012
POST 15/69 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A - C REF NO: 220526/05
Branch: Water Resource Management
Dir: Water Information Integration
Sd: Integrated Water Resource Studies
SALARY : R791 604 – R1 189 767 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package), (Offer
will be based on proven years of experience)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Science Degree (BSc) (Hon) in Hydrology. A Master of Science (MSc) will
serve as an added advantage. Three (3) years post-qualification Natural
Science experience. Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Professional
Natural Scientist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license.
65
Experience in conducting integrated water resource studies (water quality,
quantity and ecology). Experience in hydrological and water quality modelling
tools (WRSM2000, ACRU, WRYM, WRPM, HEC-HMS, SWAT+, WQSAM).
Experience in water resource data collection, analysis, interpretation,
presentation and derivation of information. Knowledge of water information
systems. Knowledge of geographical information systems (GIS) tools (ArcMap
and QGIS). The ability to apply scientific principles to integrate and interpret
water quality or quantity data to draw scientifically sound conclusions.
Understanding of research and development. Technical report writing.
Possesses a high-performance culture. Professional judgement. Data
analysis. Presentation skills. Decision-making and analytical skills. Creativity
and customer focus. Good communication skills, both verbal and written.
Problem-solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Conduct integrated water resource studies (quantity, quality, and ecology)
focusing on the impact of land use, water use activities, and climatic pressures
on water resources (surface and groundwater)- analysis of water resource
data, developing, configuring and setting up various integrated hydrological
and water quality models. Coordinate, analyse, and compile the national state
of water report. Compile monthly state of water bulletins. Compile quarterly
state of water quality bulletins. Liaise with water sector stakeholders, including
other Government Departments and the public, on water issues through
workshops and other facilitation techniques.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Joshua Rasifudi Tel No: (012) 336 6856
POST 15/70 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT REF NO: 220526/06 (X2
POSTS)
Branch: Director-General
Dir: Internal Audit
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Accounting/ Auditing or CIA. An NQF level 8 will
serve as an added advantage. Three (3) years’ experience in internal auditing
Three (3) to (5) five years’ experience in the water sector and/or local
government will serve as an added advantage. The disclosure of a valid
unexpired driver’s license (for both manual and automatic driving). Knowledge
of Internal Audit Standards. Understanding of Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations and guidelines. Knowledge in Public Service
Anti-corruption strategy and anti-corruption and fraud prevention measures.
Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative action guidelines and laws.
Knowledge and understanding on Human Resource Management legislation,
policies, practices and procedures. Understanding of departmental policies
and procedures. Knowledge of government financial systems, principles and
practice of financial accounting. Knowledge of frameworks for managing
performance information, business strategy transaction and alignment.
Problem solving and analysis. People and diversity management. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills both (verbal and
written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Previse and execute internal audit compliance, performance and consulting
projects. Execute ad-hoc projects. Draft internal audit reports. Contribute
towards the development of the three year and annual internal audit plan.
Participate as a team member in the direct assistance to the Auditor General
of South Africa’s regularity audit. Compile monthly and quarterly reports to the
accounting officer and audit committee. Compile weekly time sheets and
review those of subordinates. Participate in the annual review of internal audit
governance documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MJ Legodi Tel No: (012) 336 8802
POST 15/71 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 220526/07
Branch: Provincial and Entity Governance and International Cooperation
Dir: Africa Relations
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification (National Diploma) in Public or Business
Administration/Political Science/ as recognised by SAQA. Three (3) years’
relevant experience. Knowledge of administrative procedures. Knowledge of
dispute resolution process. Understanding of social and economic
development issues. Basic financial management and knowledge of PFMA.
66
Knowledge change and people management. Problem solving and analysis.
People and diversity management. Client orientation and customer focus.
Good communication skills both (verbal and written). Accountability and ethical
conduct.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to all personnel in the component. Render
financial administration to the component. Render procurement administration.
Maintain register of the component. Render \huma resource and supervision.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MA Sithole Tel No: (012) 336 8588
POST 15/72 : SURVEY OFFICER REF NO: 220526/08 (X2 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management Eastern Operations
Dir: Operations Eastern
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Midmar Dam
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. One (1) to (3) three years' experience in
Engineering Survey field work will serve as an added advantage. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver's license. Computer literacy, Knowledge
in association with safety. Basic knowledge in using hand tools.
Communication skills, Good interpersonal skills, being able to work in a team,
Accountability and ethical Conduct, Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Assist with survey site preparations and field surveys data collection, assisting
with the loading of equipment, carry out site preparation according to
instruction, carrying of survey equipment, clearing of vegetation at sites.
Survey document preparation and maintenance, Delivering of documents,
collection of required documents, completion of necessary request forms.
Assisting with use of boats for hydrographic survey work, assisting with the
loading of boats, assisting with launching of boats, assist with survey on board
the boats, cleaning of boats on return from sites. Survey equipment
maintenance and storage, cleaning of survey equipment and survey stores,
reporting of any defects to supervisor, visual inspection of survey equipment,
minor repairs of survey equipment
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Van Rensburg Tel No: (033) 239 1900
67
ANNEXURE N
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT
APPLICATIONS : Applications should be e-mailed to GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za quoting
the relevant reference number on the e-mail subject line.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83 of
the Public Service Act, obtainable from any Public Service Department or any
Public Service and Administration website. Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on application but
must submit a fully completed Z83 and a detailed Curriculum Vitae only, in PDF
and as one (1) document or attachment. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application
will not be accepted. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified documents on or before the day of the interviews and must be
available for interviews, at a date and time determined by the Department.
Failure to submit the requested documents/information will result in your
application not being considered. Failure to comply with this requirement will
result in the candidate being disqualified. Personnel suitability checks will also
be administered as a part of the selection process. Personnel suitability checks
will also be administered as a part of the selection process. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. If you have not been contacted within a
three month after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. The applicants must not have previously
participated in an internship programme in the Public Service. The
qualifications must be from an accredited institutions of higher learning.
Candidates whose appointments promote representativity in terms of race,
gender and disability will receive preference.
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME 2026 – 2028
The Gauteng Department of Environment invites unemployed South African graduates to apply for the
2026 to 2028 Internship Programme. Graduates must be in possession of a completed National Diploma /
Bachelor’s degree/ Honour’s degree in the below-mentioned disciplines/ fields. The Programme will be
for non-renewable contract period of twenty-four (24) months.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/73 : AIR QUALITY REF NO: AQ2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Environmental Science/Management/Chemistry/Chemical
Engineering/Earth Science/Natural Science.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/74 : POLLUTION & WASTE MANAGEMENT REF NO: PWM2026 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Environmental Science/Management/Natural Science/
Geography.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
68
POST 15/75 : ENVIRONMENTAL & IMPACT MANAGEMENT REF NO: EIM2026 (X1
POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Environmental Science/Management
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/76 : ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY, PLANNING & CORDINATION REF NO:
EPPC2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Pretoria (Council for Scientific & Industrial Research)
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Environmental Science/Management.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/77 : COMPLIANCE & ENFORCEMENT REF NO: CE2026 (X4 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Environmental Science/Management/ Natural Science.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/78 : OFFICE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT REF NO: HOD2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Public Management/Administration/ Office & Technology
Management.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/79 : FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: FM2026 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : N6/Diploma/Degree in Financial Management/Accounting Science.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/80 : ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO: OD2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Work-study / Operations Management/ Management
Services/ Production Management.
69
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/81 : INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO: ICT2026 (X1
POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/Diploma in Computer Science/Information Technology/Business
Informatics.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/82 : COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: COM2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Media Studies or related qualifications.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/83 : GRAPHIC DESIGN REF NO: GD2026 (X1 POST)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Graphic Design or related qualifications.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
POST 15/84 : PLANNING, MONITORING & EVALUATION REF NO: ICT2026 (X2 POSTS)
STIPEND : R8 174.75 per month
CENTRE : Head Office: Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : Diploma/Degree in Social Science/Public Management & Governance/
Monitoring & Evaluation.
DUTIES : Successful interns will receive structured work exposure and training relevant
to their field of study, in line with the placement area. Interns are expected to
actively participate in workplace activities, projects, and capacity-building
initiatives under supervision of experienced professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Livhuwani Mutswana Tel No: (011) 240 2590
APPLICATIONS : GDEnvInternship@gauteng.gov.za
70
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and is committed to the promotion of diversity and equity in employment. Women and people
living with disabilities are highly encouraged to apply. The Department of Agriculture and Rural
Development reserves the right not to fill any advertised post. Invited candidates will attend interviews at
their own cost due to budgetary constraints.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the online e-Recruitment
system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs. Applications submitted electronically
will be taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented
in any way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement.
All applications must be addressed to the Acting Head of Department and for
reference numbers starting with SSC may be hand delivered or couriered to 4
Pin Oak Avenue, Hilton, 3245.
All applications for reference numbers starting with NSC may be hand
delivered or couriered to Lot no. 11634, Corner of Via Verbena and Loop Street,
Veldenvlei, Richards Bay, 3900. Applicants may also submit their completed
and signed Z83 application forms and CV’s directly to the following email
addresses: kznjobssouth@kzndard.gov.za for reference numbers starting with
SSC OR kznjobsnorth@kzndard.gov.za for reference numbers starting with
NSC.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : Applicants using the manual application process must submit their applications
on the prescribed form Z83 (Please use the New Z83 form which is effective
from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service Department or at
www.dpsa.gov.za and all applications must be accompanied by a
comprehensive CV. Applicants must ensure that the Z83 application form is
completed in full, duly signed and initialled, as failure to do so may lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. Only shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications and other
related/supporting documents on or before the day of the interview following
the communication from Human Resources. Applicants may also visit any one
of our Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) where our friendly staff
will assist you with applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You
can find the list of Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
No late applications will be accepted. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in the disqualification of your application. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/85 : SCIENTIFIC MANAGER GRADE A NATURAL RESOURCES REF NO:
SSC02/2026
SALARY : R1 143 468 per annum, (all-inclusive salary OSD package)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : An M.Sc degree (NQF level 9) in Natural Resource Management / Ecological
Science / Environmental Science / Soil Science. Compulsory registration with
SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist and a valid driver’s licence.
Experience: 6 years’ post qualification (M.Sc) experience in an Agricultural
Scientific Environment. Knowledge: Knowledge of Occupational Health and
Safety Standards. Sound and broad knowledge of Geo-Information System
(GIS), programming, and modelling of geodata information and satellite data
interrogation. Excellent knowledge of climate change and plant-soil-climate
interactions. Strong and broad knowledge in managing large-scale soil
surveys, soil mapping, data interpretation and analysis, land use planning, and
enterprise management. Knowledge of management of natural resources,
environmental management, land and soil management and farm plan
management. Knowledge of the Preservation and Development of Agricultural
71
Land Act (PDALA), Climate Change Act (CCA), Conservation of Agricultural
Resource Act (CARA) and National Environmental Act. Knowledge of Labour
Relations Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Departmental HRM and HRD Policies. Sound understanding of agricultural
research methodologies and application of practices and techniques.
Knowledge of scientific research methodology and models. Skills: Technical:
Programme and project management, scientific methodologies and models,
research and development, computer-aided scientific applications, knowledge
of legal compliance, technical report writing, creating high performance culture,
professional judgement, data analysis, policy development and analysis,
scientific presentation and mentoring. Generic: Strategic capability and
leadership, decision making, team leadership, creativity, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
literacy, networking, planning, organizing and execution, conflict management,
people management, change management, problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership, direction and ensure the development and
implementation of policies, systems and procedures. Manage Research and
Development. Manage the provision of advice and ensure governance.
Manage Financial Resources. Manage Human Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs NZQ Pakkies Tel No: (033) 355 9148
POST 15/86 : PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER GRADE A/B/C REF NO: SSC03/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade B: R1 030 296 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade C: R1 172 184 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A B. Engineering / BSc. Engineering degree in Agricultural Engineering or Civil
Engineering, compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer
and a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 3 years’ post qualification Agricultural
Engineering or Civil Engineering experience. Knowledge: Programme and
project management, engineering design and analysis knowledge, research
and development, computer-aided engineering applications, legal compliance,
technical report writing, creating a high-performance culture, professional
judgement, networking, Occupational Health and Safety Standards, Labour
Relations Act, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Basic Conditions
of Employment Act, Departmental HRM and HRD Policies. Skills: Decision
making, team leadership, analytical, creativity, self-management, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer
literacy, planning and organising, conflict management, problem solving and
analysis, people management, change management, innovation and writing.
DUTIES : Develop and design engineering infrastructure plans. Conduct project
inspections and provide progress reports. Conduct research and development.
Promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound engineering
principles and code of practice. Perform administrative and related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms SE Ndlela Tel No: (033) 343 8024
POST 15/87 : PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIST GRADE A/B/C – GRASSLAND / PASTURE
SCIENCE REF NO: SSC04/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R791 604 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade B: R900 957 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade C: R1 015 071 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
CENTRE : Cedara Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : A B.Sc in Agriculture degree (NQF level 8) majoring in Pasture Science and/or
Plant Breeding, compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Professional
Natural Scientist and a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 3 years’ post
qualification relevant experience. Knowledge: Sound understanding of
agricultural research methodologies and application of practices and
techniques in the field of pasture science and/or plant breeding. Skills:
Technical: Programme and project management, scientific methodologies and
models, research and development, computer-aided scientific applications,
legal compliance, technical report writing, creating high performance culture,
professional judgement, data analysis, policy development and analysis,
presentation skills, mentoring, pastures and livestock husbandry. Generic:
Decision making, team leadership, analytical skills, creativity, financial
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication,
networking, computer literacy, people management, planning and organising,
conflict management, change management, problem solving and analysis.
72
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures with
regards to pasture science or plant breeding. Perform scientific analysis and
regulatory functions. Conduct research and development in pasture science or
plant breeding. Human capital development. Perform administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Magawana Tel No: (033) 355 9258
POST 15/88 : PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIST GRADE A/B/C – RANGELAND/PASTURE
SCIENCE) REF NO: NSC01/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R791 604 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade B: R900 957 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade C: R1 015 071 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
CENTRE : Dundee Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : A B.Sc in Agriculture degree (NQF level 8) majoring in Veld Science,
compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist and
a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 3 years’ post qualification relevant
experience. Knowledge: Sound understanding of agricultural research
methodologies and application of practices and techniques in the field of veld
science. Skills: Technical: Programme and project management, scientific
methodologies and models, research and development, computer-aided
scientific applications, legal compliance, technical report writing, creating high
performance culture, professional judgement, data analysis, policy
development and analysis, presentation skills, mentoring, veld management
and livestock husbandry. Generic: Decision making, team leadership,
analytical skills, creativity, financial management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, networking, computer literacy, people
management, planning and organising, conflict management, change
management, problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures with
regards to pasture science or plant breeding. Perform scientific analysis and
regulatory functions. Conduct research and development in pasture science or
plant breeding. Human capital development. Perform administrative and
related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Magawana Tel No: (033) 355 9258
POST 15/89 : PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIST GRADE A/B/C (BIOCHEMISTRY) REF NO:
SSC05/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R791 604 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade B: R900 957 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade C: R1 015 071 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
CENTRE : Cedara Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 08 four-year Science degree (B.Sc and Honours) in
Biochemistry/Chemistry, compulsory registration with SACNASP as a
Professional Natural Scientist in the field of Agriculture or Chemical Science
and a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 3 years’ relevant post qualification
experience. Knowledge: Occupational Health and Safety Standards, laboratory
management and flow, laboratory instrumentation maintenance, calibration
and troubleshooting, biochemistry and chemistry, Labour Relations Act, Public
Service Regulations, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Departmental HRM
and HRD Policies, agricultural research methodologies and application of
practices and techniques, Scientific methodology and models. Skills: Technical:
Analytical skills and data analysis, scientific methodology and models,
research and development, writing of scientific papers, technical reports and
popular articles, scientific editing and reviewing, communication at a scientific,
technical and informative level, programme and project management,
presentation, computer aided scientific applications, professional judgement,
policy development and analysis, and crop and livestock husbandry. Generic:
Leadership, mentorship, conflict management, financial management,
planning and organising, analytical, problem solving and analysis, creativity,
decision making, change management, customer focus and responsiveness,
communication, innovation, computer literacy, networking, creating high
performance culture.
DUTIES : Conduct research and development. Perform agricultural scientific analysis
and regulatory functions. Develop and implement methodologies, policies,
systems and procedures. Human Capital development. Perform administrative
functions.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. SR Bezuidenhout Tel No: (033) 355 9657
73
POST 15/90 : PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIST GRADE A/B/C (HORTICULTURE) REF NO:
SSC06/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R791 604 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade B: R900 957 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
Grade C: R1 015 071 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD remuneration package)
CENTRE : Cedara Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 08 four-year B.Sc in Agriculture degree majoring in Horticulture,
compulsory registration with SACNASP as a Professional Natural Scientist and
a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 3 years’ relevant post qualification
experience. Knowledge: Sound understanding of agricultural research
methodologies and application of practices and techniques in horticulture.
Skills: Technical: Analytical skills and data analysis, scientific methodology and
models, research and development, writing of scientific papers, technical
reports and popular articles, scientific editing and reviewing, communication at
a scientific, technical and informative level, programme and project
management, presentation and computer aided scientific applications.
Generic: Leadership, mentorship, conflict management, financial
management, planning and organizing, problem solving and analysis,
creativity, decision making, change management, customer focus and
responsiveness, communication, innovation, computer literacy, networking,
creating high performance culture.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures with
particular reference to horticultural research. Perform agricultural scientific
analysis and regulatory functions. Conduct research and development. Human
Capital development. Perform administrative functions.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. SR Bezuidenhout Tel No: (033) 355 9657
POST 15/91 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
NSC02/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : North Service Centre – Richards Bay
REQUIREMENTS : An Advanced Diploma / Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) qualification in
Property Management / Financial Management / Project Management / Public
Administration / Public Management and a valid driver’s licence. Experience:
3 – 5 years’ supervisory experience or 3 – 5 years’ experience at the level of
an Administrative Officer in the field of Infrastructure Management. Knowledge:
RSA Constitution, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA,
EPMDS, Project management principles, National and Provincial Practice
Notes, SCM Practices and Procedures, National Development Plan, Provincial
Growth and Development Plan, Treasury Regulations, Batho Pele Principles,
Government Immovable Assets Management Act, State Housing Policy, Land
Administration Act, Extension of Security Tenure Act. Skills: Language,
listening, presentation, analytical thinking, interpersonal relations, computer,
strategic planning, organizational, research, analytical, leadership, financial
management, time management, report writing, problem solving,
communication, conflict management, change management, self-disciplined
and have the ability to work under pressure with minimum supervision,
supervisory, project management, people management, relationship
management, decision making.
DUTIES : Coordinate the management of state-owned properties including the effective
implementation of construction projects. Oversee office accommodation
leasing requirements of the Service Centre. Oversee state housing
management in the Service Centre. Provide advice, guidance and input into
Infrastructure Management policies. Manage resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GN Ndlovu Tel No: (033) 355 9411
POST 15/92 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: MOVABLE ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
NSC03/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : North Service Centre – Richards Bay
REQUIREMENTS : An Advanced Diploma / Degree (NQF level 7) qualification in Financial
Management / Project Management / Public Administration and a valid driver’s
license. Experience: 3 – 5 years’ supervisory experience or 3 – 5 years’
experience at the level of an Administrative Officer in Asset Management.
Knowledge: Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, PFMA, EPMDS,
74
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Project Management principles, National
and Provincial Practice Notes, SCM Practices and Procedures, Treasury
Regulations, Movable Asset Management Framework, Asset Management
Policies for general and biological assets, Livestock Policies, Financial
Systems e.g. BAS. Skills: Language, listening, presentation, analytical
thinking, interpersonal relations, computer, organizational, supervisory,
financial management, time management, report writing, problem solving,
communication, conflict management, change management, self-disciplined
and have the ability to work under pressure with minimum supervision, project
management, people management, decision making.
DUTIES : Provide and coordinate movable asset acquisition processes at the service
centre. Facilitate the operation and maintenance of all movable assets at the
service centre. Coordinate the disposal process in respect of movable assets
at the service centre. Provide advice, guidance and input into Movable Asset
Management policies. Manage resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms GN Ndlovu Tel No: (033) 355 9411
POST 15/93 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN GRADE A/B/C (NATURAL RESOURCES) REF
NO: SSC07/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
Grade B: R460 086 per annum, (OSD)
Grade C: R518 769 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 06 Diploma in Agricultural Science / Natural Sciences /
Environmental Sciences. Compulsory registration with SACNASP as a
Certificated Natural Scientist and a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 3 years’
post qualification relevant experience. Knowledge: Sound understanding of
agricultural research methodologies and application of practices and
techniques in the field of land and soil management and farm planning. Skills:
Technical: Analytical and data analysis. Scientific methodology and models.
Research and development. Technical report writing. Programme and project
management. Computer-aided scientific applications. Professional judgement.
Data analysis. Policy development and analysis. Crop and husbandry. Creating
a high-performance culture. Legal compliance. Generic: Planning and
organizing, team leadership, self-management, analytical, problem-solving
and analysis, creativity, decision making, change management, customer
focus and responsiveness, communication, innovation, computer literacy and
networking.
DUTIES : Implement methodologies and provide scientific and technical advice. Perform
technical scientific analysis and research functions. Research and
Development. Human Capital Development. Perform administrative and
related duties.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs NZQ Pakkies Tel No: (033) 355 9148
POST 15/94 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN GRADE A/B/C (JUNCAO MUSHROOM
SECTION) REF NO: SSC08/2026
SALARY : R407 337 per annum, (OSD)
R460 086 per annum, (OSD)
R518 769 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cedara Research Station
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF Level 06 Diploma in Agricultural Sciences. Compulsory registration
with SACNASP as a Certificated Natural Scientist in the field of Agricultural
Sciences and a valid driver’s licence. Experience: 3 years’ post qualification
experience in an agricultural scientific environment. Knowledge: Knowledge of
Occupational Health and Safety Standards. Sound and broad knowledge of
laboratory management and flow. Sound and broad knowledge of laboratory
instrumentation maintenance, calibration and troubleshooting. Knowledge of
microbiology. Labour Relations Act. Public Service Regulations. Basic
Conditions of Employment Act. Departmental HRM and HRD Policies. Sound
understanding of agricultural research methodologies and application of
practices and techniques. Scientific methodology and models. Skills:
Programme and project management, scientific methodologies, research and
development, computer-aided scientific applications, analytical skills and data
analysis, legal compliance, technical report writing, creating a high
performance culture, professional judgement, mentorship, decision making,
team leadership, creativity, self-management, financial management,
customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer literacy,
75
networking, people management, planning and organizing, conflict
management, problem solving and analysis.
DUTIES : To conduct research and development. To perform technical scientific analysis
and regulatory functions. To develop and implement methodologies, policies,
systems and procedures. Human capital development. To manage the
resources of the division.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. SR Bezuidenhout Tel No: (033) 355 9657
POST 15/95 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF DIRECTOR: RURAL ENTERPRISE
AND INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT REF NO: SSC09/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Secretarial Diploma or relevant equivalent qualification (one year
qualification) and a valid driver’s license. Experience: 3 years’ experience in
rendering support service to senior management. Knowledge: Public Service
Act, Public Service Regulations, Public Systems and Procedures, knowledge
on the relevant legislation, policies, prescripts and procedures, Financial
Administration and Office Administration. Skills: language, good verbal and
written communication, good telephone etiquette, computer literacy,
organisational, people, high level of reliability, ability to act with tact and
discretion, ability to do research and analyse documents and situations, good
grooming and presentation, self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial and receptionist support service to the Chief Director.
Render administrative support duties. Provide support to the Chief Director
during meetings. Support the Chief Director with the administration of the
budget. Study the relevant Public Service and Departmental prescripts, policies
and other documents to ensure the application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Gumede at 082 892 0731
POST 15/96 : ARTISAN GRADE A/B/C (DIESEL MECHANIC) REF NO: SSC10/2026
SALARY : R253 341 per annum, (OSD)
R297 249 per annum, (OSD)
R345 342 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cedara Research Farm
REQUIREMENTS : A suitable Trade Test Certificate (Diesel Mechanics) and a valid driver’s licence.
Experience: Completion of trade test and apprenticeship. Knowledge:
Technical analysis. Knowledge of safety and legal requirements. Production
process and specifications. Public Service Regulations. Labour Relations Act.
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Skills: Technical: Technical analysis,
computer-aided technical applications, legal compliance, technical report
writing, production, process knowledge and skills. Generic: Problem solving
and analysis, decision making, teamwork, analytical skills, creativity, self-
management, customer focus and responsiveness, communication, computer,
planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Produce designs. Render production services. Conduct repairs and
maintenance. Perform administrative and related functions. Maintain expertise
relevant to the field of work.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AJ Kent Tel No: (033) 355 9192
POST 15/97 : GENERAL ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Harry Gwala District, UGu District and Zululand District:
Ref No: SSC11/2026 (Harry Gwala and UGu Districts)
Ref No: NSC04/2026 (Zululand District)
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate (Matric) and a valid driver’s
licence. Experience: No experience required. Knowledge: Office
administration. Batho Pele principles. Public Service Act, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations.
Departmental HRM and HRD Policies. Skills: Time management, decision
making, planning, organising, communication (written and verbal),
interpersonal relations, computer, report writing, analytical, telephone
etiquette, innovative.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide stores administration
services. Provide Human Resource support services. Provide financial
administration support services. Provide transport and asset support services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms DDS Zulu Tel No: (039) 834 7600 (Harry Gwala District)
76
Ms MP Gwala Tel No: (039) 682 2045 (UGu District)
Mr MD Dlamini Tel No: (035) 874 9006 (Zululand District)
POST 15/98 : FINANCE CLERK (REVENUE CONTROL) REF NO: SSC12/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office – Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate (Matric). Experience: No
experience required. Knowledge: RSA Constitution, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, knowledge of Basic Accounting System (BAS), Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, Financial Regulations, Batho
Pele Principles, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Departmental Policies
and SOP’s. Skills: Financial Management, computer literacy (MS Office),
communication (written and verbal), leadership, problem solving, change
management, presentation, interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Receive and deposit state money. Maintain revenue registers. Batch receipts.
Render petty cash services. Perform administrative and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Seethal Tel No: (033) 355 9127
POST 15/99 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK (BIDS ADMINISTRATION
SERVICES REF NO: SSC13/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office - Cedara
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate/National Senior Certificate (Matric). Experience: No
experience required. Knowledge: RSA Constitution, Public Service Act, Public
Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act,
Employee and Performance Management System, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, KZN Provincial Supply Chain Policy Framework, SCM
Practices and Procedures, Promotion of Access to Information Act, National
Treasury Regulations and Provincial Treasury Practices Notes. Skills:
language, presentation, analytical thinking, interpersonal relations, computer,
planning and organising, financial management, time management, report
writing, problem solving, communication, project management, people
management, relationship management, decision making, self-disciplined and
the ability to work under pressure with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services. Coordinate and attend site briefing
meetings. Facilitate the closing and pre-screening of BIDS. Safekeeping of
documents. Attend to general enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr BR Dube Tel No: (033) 355 9185
POST 15/100 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: NSC05/2026
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRES : Owen Sithole College of Agriculture - Empangeni
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 10 qualification or 7 – 12 months’ relevant experience and a valid
driver’s licence. Knowledge: Knowledge of the procedures to operate a vehicle,
knowledge of the prescripts for the correct utilization of a motor vehicle,
knowledge of the procedures to ensure that the vehicle is maintained properly,
knowledge of cities/towns in which the function will be performed, knowledge
of the procedures to perform messenger functions and routine office support
functions like registry functions and making photocopies. Skills:
Communication, good inter-personal relations, planning, organising and time
management.
DUTIES : Render driving services. Conduct routine maintenance on allocated vehicle.
Render clerical support / messenger service. Render auxiliary services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MK Shakwane Tel No: (035) 795 1345
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be addressed to Mrs R Erasmus, Human Resource
Management Services, Registrar Programme, Department of Health, Private
Bag X9051, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or hand deliver to Human Resource
Management Services, 330 Langalibalele Street, Natalia Building, Room 6-106
South Tower. Applications can also be submitted through the online e-
Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs R Erasmus, Human Resources, Tel No: (033) 395 2742/3347/2669
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
77
NOTE : Training will take place at various sites for each Discipline. The site for training
and subsequent rotations will be determined by the Academic Head of
Discipline/Head Clinical Unit. Sub-speciality training will be a contract
appointment for 3/4 years, depending on the Discipline. For a 3 year contract,
2 years will be for training and 1 year for service. For a 4 year contract, 3 years
will be for training and 1 year for service. All trainees will be expected to register
with the University at their own expense. All trainees will be required to sign a
contract which includes training and service responsibilities. Trainees will be
required to complete Performance Agreements and assessments as stipulated
by the Department. Sub-specialty trainees will be required to complete Clinical
and Academic assessments as stipulated by the Department. Please note that
the formal offer of a Sub-specialty training will be dependent upon proof of
successful completion of the required examinations. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. The following documents must be submitted: Application
for Employment Form (Form Z.83), which is obtainable at any Government
Department or from the website - www.kznhealth.gov.za and a comprehensive
CV (with detailed experience), confirming current and appropriate work
experience related to the requirements and recommendations of the advert
with full record of service, stating duties performed/performing and years of
experience. Copies of Qualifications, Registration Certificates and driver’s
license must not be submitted when applying for employment. Only shortlisted
candidates will be requested to bring certified copies on or before the day of
the interview. Applicants are discouraged from sending applications through
registered mail because the Department will not be responsible for non-
collection of these applications. No late applications will be accepted. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Non- SA Citizens/ Permanent
Residents / Work permit holders must provide documentary proof on or before
the day of the interview. Failure to comply may result in the application not
being considered. The appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained
from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security
clearance (vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship),
verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous
experience from Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual
Property Commission (CIPC). Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply
for the post/s. Failure to comply with the above instructions will disqualify
applicants. If you have not been contacted within three months of the closing
date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer, whose aim is to promote presentively in all levels of all occupational
categories in the Department. Department reserves the right not to fill this post.
People with disabilities should feel free to apply for the posts. The reference
number must be indicated in the column provided on the form Z83, e.g. ref
APRO/1/2006. Please note that failure to comply with the above instructions
will disqualify applicants. Please note that the selected candidate will be
subjected to a pre-employment screening and verification process including a
CIPC (Companies Intellectual Property Commission) screening. Due to the
large number of applications we receive, receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged. Should you not be advised within 60 days of the closing date,
kindly consider your application as unsuccessful.
OTHER POST
POST 15/101 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST REF NO: S01/2026
Sub-Specialty Training: Clinical Haematology
(3 Year fixed term)
SALARY : R1 395 528 per annum. Applicants to note: Salary package is subject to OSD
determination plus commuted overtime depending on needs of the
Discipline/Institution.
CENTRE : Various (KZN)
REQUIREMENTS : Tertiary qualification (MBCHB) or equivalent; Plus current registration for
Independent Practice as a Medical Specialist with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa with FCP, a Valid driver’s license. Preference will be
given to candidates with at least two (2) years’ experience as a specialist. Basic
knowledge of Medical Practice Ethics, ability to manage patients
78
independently, ability to learn, innovate and be prepared to work overtime,
good interpersonal skills, an interest in conducting research, knowledge and
respect of the Patients’ Rights Charter and Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : Participation in academic and teaching programmes and meetings in the
respective Departments, responsibility for care of patients at designated
levels/sites, e.g. Outpatients, Wards, Theatres, ICUs etc., management of
patients under supervision, attendance at ward rounds and/or tutorials,
supervision and teaching of undergraduates, provision of after-hours care for
emergency services, clerking and keeping of comprehensive records of
patients in the hospital file, outreach activities as deemed necessary by the
Clinical Supervisor. The Department reserves the right not to fill these post (s).
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R Erasmus Tel No: (033) 395 2742/2669
79
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting relevant reference and name of Department, should be
forwarded as follows: Director: HRM Coordination, Office of the Premier,
Private Bag X9483, Polokwane, 0600 or Hand delivered to the Office of the
Premier, No. 40 Hans Van Rensburg Street, Mowaneng Building, Office No.
A013, General Records (Registry), Ground Floor. Applicants should apply
through the following website https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za. The
application on eRecruitment system should be accompanied by recent
comprehensive CV (previous experience must be comprehensively detailed,
i.e. positions held and duration/dates). Failure to attach updated CV will result
in the application not being considered/disqualification.
FOR ATTENTION : Mr. Junior Maboya / Ms. Moipone Mathole / Ms. Maria Mashitoa
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, (updated version that come
into effect on 1 January 2021), obtainable from any Public Service Department
or on the internet at www.labour.gov.za / www.gov.za/documents and must only
be accompanies by a detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV), applicants are requested
to complete the Z83 form properly and in full. Only shortlisted candidates will
be required to submit certified copies of qualification(s) and other related
documents on, or before the day of the interview following an invitation from
The Office to attend an interview, such as qualification(s) and other related
document(s) should be in line with the requirements of the advertisement. For
advertised Senior Management Services (SMS) posts in the Public Service, no
appointment shall be effected without the recommended candidate producing
a Certificate of completion for the Nyukela programme (SMS Pre-Entry
Programme) offered by the National School of Governance (NSG) which can
be accessed via following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-
pre-entry-programme. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Qualification certificates MUST not be copies of certified copies. Applications
received after the closing date and those that do not comply with these
instructions will not be considered. The onus is on the applicants to ensure that
their applications are posted, or hand delivered timeously. Candidates who
possess foreign qualifications and/or short course certificate must take it upon
themselves to have their qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). If you have not been contacted within three
(3) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a
personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). Successful candidates
will be appointed on a probation period of 12 months. The successful candidate
will be subjected to a security clearance. The successful candidate must be
willing to sign an oath of secrecy with the Department. The successful
candidate will be expected to enter into a performance agreement with the
Director General. The candidates will be required to disclose his/her financial
interests in accordance with the applicable prescripts. The Office reserves the
right not to make appointment on the advertised post. Applicants who
previously applied for the re-advertised post they are encouraged to re-apply if
still interested.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/102 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
OTP/26/26/01
Re-advert
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15)
CENTRE : Polokwane: Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate / Grafe 12 Certificate (NQF level 4) plus NQF level
8 in Public Management / Business Management or equivalent qualification as
recognised by South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). Eight (8) years of
experience at a senior management level. Valid driver’s licence (with the
exemption of applicants with disabilities); Core and Process Competencies-
80
Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project Management,
Change Management, Financial Management, Knowledge Management,
Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation and Customer Focus,
Communication. Skills & Knowledge: Sound an in-depth knowledge of relevant
prescripts, application of Human Resources as well as an understanding of the
Legislative Framework governing the Public Service such as; the Public
Service Amendment Act, Public Service Regulation, Public Service
Administration Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act, Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, Labour Relations Act, Administrative Justice
Act, Promotion of Access of Information Act, Public Service Regulations,
various Bargaining Council Resolutions, Skills Levy Act, Occupational Health
& Safety Act, Human Resource Development Strategy, Public Finance
Management Act and its regulations, Treasury Regulations, PSCBC
resolutions. Negotiation Skills, Planning and Organizing, Time Management,
Policy Analysis and Development, Good Communication Skills, Group
Dynamics, Diversity Management, Facilitation Skills, Coordinating Skills,
Computer literacy.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for:- Ensure effective
administration support by providing Human Resource Management (HRM),
Human Resource Development (HRD), Performance Management
Development System (PMDS), and Employee Health and Wellness
Programmes (EHW); Manage Records and Facilities; Provide Departmental
Information and Communication Technology Services; Manage and coordinate
the implementation of Strategic Management support; Oversee the
development of management effectiveness and leadership strategy; Manage
and facilitate the provision of organisational risk, security and integrity
management services; Oversee the development, implementation and
maintenance of relevant policies, standard operating procedures, guidelines
and processes, achieving compliance in line with legislation services; Manage
Protocol, Events, Premier and DG Support Service by ensuring events are well
managed, oversee the management of the Official Order of Procedure;
Oversee the management of Corporate Gifts and Flag Bank; Manage and
facilitate the provision of Labour Relations Services and ensure that the
implementation of grievance rules, Disciplinary Code and Procedure, Dispute
Resolution Procedure Council and Chambers Resolutions in the office are
coordinated and evaluated; Ensure that grievance, misconduct cases, dispute
resolution and capacity building in the office of the premier are handled and
facilitated; Monitor the coordination of public service industrial action and
oversee the provision of departmental training on all labour relation matters;
Ensure effective Financial Management Services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Moipone Mathole Tel No: (015) 287 6360 or Mr. Junior Maboya Tel No:
(015) 287 6290
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Limpopo Department of Social Development is an equal opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer.
Designed race groups, females and People with disabilities remain our target and are encouraged to
apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are hereby invited to apply for the funded vacant posts as
advertised. Applicants who previously applied for the re-advertised posts they
are encouraged to re-apply if still interested. Applicants are encouraged to
register and submit their applications through the e-Recruitment website at
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za, however, hand delivery applications
are acceptable Applications should be addressed to various institution as per
the applicant’s need.
Head Office, Seshego Treatment Centre, Mavambe Secure Care Centre
and Polokwane Welfare Complex: Applications should be directed to Head
of Department, Private Bag X9710, Polokwane, 0700 or submitted at: 21
Biccard Street, Olympic Towers Building, Ground Floor, Office no 30.
Capricorn District/Sekutupu Old Age Home: The District Director, Private
Bag X9709, Polokwane, 0700 or hand delivered at 34 Hans Van Rensburg
Polowane.
Sekhukhune District: The District Director, Private Bag X80, Lebowakgomo,
0737 or hand delivered at Old Parliament Building Lebowakgomo.
81
Vhembe District: The District Director, Private Bag X5040, Thohoyandou,
0950 or hand delivered at Thohoyandou Child and Youth Care Centre,
Thohoyandou Block F Punda Maria Road, Thohoyandou.
Waterberg District: The District Director, Private Bag X1051, Modimolle, 0510
or hand delivered at Cnr Elias Motswaledi & Thabo Mbeki Street, Modimolle.
Mopani District: The District Director, Private Bag X9689, Giyani, 0826 or
should be hand delivered at Department of Social Development Unigaza Road
Giyani Section A, 0826.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new Z83 application form obtained from
all Government Departments or can be downloaded from www.gov.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za / www.labour.gov.za. The new Z83 form must be fully
completed and signed by the applicant. The following must be considered in
relation to the completion of the Z83 by applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part
C and Part D must be completed. In Part B, all fields should be completed in
full except the following: South African applicants need not provide passport
numbers. If an applicant responded “No” to the question “Are you conducting
business with the State or are you a Director of a Public or Private company
conducting business with the State? Then it is acceptable for an applicant to
indicate not applicable or leave blank to the question. If yes (provide detail), “In
the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interest?”. Applicants may leave the following
question blank if they are not in possession of such: “If your profession or
occupation requires official registration, provide date and particulars of
registration”. Noting there is limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants
often indicate “refer to Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached”, this is
acceptable as long as the CV has been attached and provides the required
information. If the information is not provided in the CV, the applicant may be
disqualified. It must be noted that a CV is an extension of the application of
employment Z83, and applicants are accountable for the information that is
provided therein. The questions related to conditions that prevent re-
appointment under Part F must be answered. Applicants with foreign
qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their qualifications are
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and to provide
proof of such evaluation. Applicants are not required to submit certified copies
of educational qualifications, academic records, current registration with the
relevant statutory body, Identity documents and a valid motor vehicle driver’s
license (where required) but must submit a duly completed Z83 application for
employment form, and a detailed CV. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
come for an interview, at which time, certified copies of all relevant
qualifications, current registration with the relevant statutory body, copy of ID
and a valid motor vehicle driver’s license (where required) must be submitted.
All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One
shall be a practical exercise and the other shall be an Integrity [Ethical
Conduct], an Assessment as per Directive on Human Resource Management
and Development for Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April
2024. The successful candidate will be subjected to security clearance [Vetting]
as per the Directive on Human Resource Management and Development for
Public Service Professionalization effective from 01 April 2024. NB: Applicants
are encouraged to comply with Practice note on the Z83 application for
employment DPSA Circular 19 of 2022, Clarification regarding the completion
of Z83 application DPSA circular 3 of 2025 and other related matters. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment to the posts
advertised. The employment decision shall among other determination be
informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. The closing date
for applications is 22 May 2026. The Limpopo Department of Social
Development is an equal opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer.
Designed race groups, females and People with disabilities remain our target
and are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be entered into with short-
listed candidates only due to a large number of applications we envisage to
receive, if you have not heard from the Department within ninety (90) day from
the closing date, consider your application unsuccessful. However, Faxed
applications will not be considered. Recognition of experience on appointment
will be considered for Social Service Professions in line with Occupational
Dispensation prescripts. The contents of this circular will also be posted on the
following websites www.dsd.limpopo.gov.za / www.limpopo.gov.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za, Provincial Departments website and social media. Please
note: Due to austerity measure, the department will not carry any related costs
(transport, accommodation, and meals) for candidates attending interviews.
82
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/103 : DISTRICT DIRECTOR (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: DSD/2026/66 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District Ref No: DSD/2026/67 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of
five (05) years of proven experience at Middle / senior Managerial level. Proof
of completion of SMS pre-entry programme must be submitted before
appointment. Valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons
with disabilities). Core and Process Competencies: Strategic Capability and
Leadership, Programme and Project Management, Change Management,
Financial Management, People Management and Empowerment, Knowledge
Management, Problem Solving and analysis, Client orientation and customer
focus, Communication. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Public Service
Knowledge, Negotiation, Policy formulation and Analytic thinking. Report
writing skills; Facilitation skills, Co-ordination skills, Liaison skills, Networking,
Interpersonal skills, Leadership skills, Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Provide leadership and strategic direction in the district. Develop business plan
in line with the strategic objective of the department. Develop and ensure the
implementation of policies, norms and standards. Promote partnership for the
delivery of primary social service. Manage Integrated Community Development
Services in the District. Provide Population and Information Development
Services at the District. Implement and monitor provision of Developmental
Social Welfare Services at the District. Strengthen the technical capacity of the
NGO’s to ensure effective implementation of the programmes. Provide
financial support services in accordance with the relevant directives and
legislation. Manage and utilize resources in accordance with the relevant
directives and legislation. Overall management of services and administration
of the district. Coordination with the relevant stakeholders for provision of
integrated services.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/104 : DIRECTOR: NON-INSTITUTIONALISED HIV/AIDS AND SOCIAL RELIEF
REF NO: DSD/2026/68 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. Current
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
[SACSSP]. A minimum experience of five (05) years of proven experience at
Middle / Senior Managerial level. Proof of completion of SMS pre-entry
programme must be submitted before appointment. Valid motor vehicle driver’s
license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Core and Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project
Management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and customer focus, communication.
Knowledge and Skills: Experience in Social Welfare Services Programmes
(HIV/AIDS, Services to Older Persons, Services to Persons with disabilities
and SSP adherence to Service Standards and Norms). Management and
Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision model within the sector.
Knowledge of relevant prescripts in Social Work. In-depth knowledge of social
work service delivery model. Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
Knowledge of, and familiarity with various computer platforms for information,
data and records management. Knowledge and understanding of Social
Development mandates. Team building and strong interpersonal skills,
planning, organising and people management skills and computer literacy.
DUTIES : Ensure the alignment of programmes to National and priorities policies. Monitor
and ensure the implementation of the strategic plans. Set performance
standards and benchmarks against which to measure achievement of
programs. Align individual performance to the strategic business objectives as
outlined in the Component’s balance scorecard. Implement and report on
strategic frameworks in the area of functional responsibility. Ensure adherence
83
to policies and procedures. Promote an intergraded service delivery and
ensure that service delivery is in line with the strategic objectives of the
Department. Oversee the development of operational plans and Standard
Operating Procedures. Promote compliance to ethical social work practice and
professionalism.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/105 : DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL PLANNING, BUDGETING & REPORTING REF NO:
DSD/2026/69 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 or equivalent qualification in
Financial Management / Financial Accounting / Commerce / Cost &
Management Accounting/Internal Auditing or equivalent qualification at as
recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five (05) years of proven relevant
experience at Middle/senior Managerial level. Proof of completion of SMS pre-
entry programme must be submitted before appointment. Valid motor vehicle
driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities Core and Process
Competencies: Strategic Capability and Leadership, Programme and Project
Management, Change Management, Financial Management, People
Management and Empowerment, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving
and analysis, Client orientation and customer focus, Communication.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of PFMA & Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of public service acts and regulations. Knowledge of public sector
budgeting processes and frameworks. Knowledge of public service financial
management systems (BAS, PERSAL and Vulindlela). Knowledge of transfer
payment regulations. Knowledge of GAAP and GRAP. Strategic financial
planning. Financial reporting and analysis. Report writing. Risk management.
Financial Management. Change Management.
DUTIES : Manage financial planning and budgeting processes. Manage the development
and implementation of the departmental Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) budget. Provide strategic directions on financial planning,
budgeting, and reporting processes. Align financial plans with departmental
strategic objectives and Annual Performance Plans (APP). Advise
management on financial sustainability and fiscal risks. Manage and control
budget implementation, expenditure monitoring and resource allocation.
Manage the compilation of annual and adjustment budgets. Oversee the
preparation of cash flow projections and revenue estimates. Coordinate budget
hearings and engagements with Provincial Treasury and oversight bodies.
Manage financial reporting and compliance services. Oversee the preparation
of monthly, quarterly, and annual financial reports. Ensure accurate and timely
submission of In-Year Monitoring (IYM) reports). Manage NGO financial
support and transfer payments. Develop frameworks and guidelines for NGO
financial support services. Oversee the evaluation and allocation of financial
transfers to NGOs. Ensure compliance of NGOs with funding agreements and
financial reporting requirements. Manage financial capacity-building initiatives
for funded NGOs. Monitor revenue management and financial risk control
systems. Oversee revenue management processes and reporting. Monitor
revenue collection performance and implement improvement strategies.
Identify and mitigate financial risks affecting the department.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/106 : MANAGER: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY: NPO CAPACITY
BUILDING & SUPPORT REF NO: DSD/2026/70 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum (Level: CD – B4), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in
Development Studies / Diaconiology / Social Sciences / Community
Development / Sociology / Anthropology / Population Studies / Demography as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 10 years’ recognizable experience in
Community Development after obtaining the required qualification. Valid motor
84
vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities).
Knowledge and Skills: Extensive knowledge of theories and systems, skills,
attitudes and values in community development to guide employees on its
application. Knowledge and understanding of individual and group behaviour,
its inter-relations within community structures, dynamics of the community and
current legislation to enable interventions. NPO Act and related legislation.
Knowledge of Public service regulations and policies. NPO governance and
compliance requirements. Departmental programmes and policies. Data
management systems. Presentation and facilitation skills. Communication.
Report writing. Stakeholder coordination. Monitoring and evaluation. Problem
solving skills. The ability to undertake complex research. Financial
management. Project Management. Policy formulation and implementation.
Integrity. Professionalism. Accountability. Initiative. Teamwork.
DUTIES : Develop annual capacity building plans aligned with departmental community
development priorities. Identify training needs within communities and NPOs
through assessments and stakeholder consultations. Monitor and evaluate the
effectiveness of training programmes and recommend improvements.
Facilitate internal departmental training on community development policies
and NPO sector regulations. Provide mentorship and technical support to
NPOs to improve service delivery. Evaluate training outcomes and implement
improvements to training methodologies. Provide guidance and support to
organizations applying for NPO registration. Conduct awareness campaigns
on the requirements of the Nonprofit Organizations Act, 1997. Assist
organizations with amendments, renewals, and regulatory compliance
requirements. Mobilise community stakeholders and NPOs to participate in
special programmes and campaigns. Monitor the progress and impact of
special programmes within communities. Ensure implementation of
departmental policies, procedures, and regulatory frameworks.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/107 : MANAGER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: DEVELOPMENT & RESEARCH
REF NO: DSD/2026/71 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum (Level: CD – A11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent in Development Studies
Development Studies / Diaconiology/ Social Sciences / Community
Development / Sociology / Anthropology / Population Studies / Demography as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience in community
development after obtaining the required qualification. Valid motor vehicle
driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and
Skills: Extensive knowledge on theories and systems, skills, attitudes and
values in community development to guide employees on its application.
Knowledge and understanding of individual and group behaviour, its inter-
relations within community structures, dynamics of the community and current
legislation to enable interventions. The ability and competence to manage
community development structures and projects. The ability to influence
individuals and groups to participate in their own self-empowerment venture.
Presentation skills. Problem solving skills. The ability to undertake complex
research. Financial management. Project Management. Computer literacy.
Written and verbal communication skills. Staff management. Policy formulation
and implementation. Knowledge of the Public Service Management
Framework. PFMA, Labour Relation Act, etc.
DUTIES : Develop the business plan in line with the strategic objectives of the
department. Manage and coordinate activities of community development.
Manage & Monitor activities of service providers. Manage sustainable
livelihood information. Promote inter-sectoral collaboration to ensure
integrated services. Formulate and manage the component’s budget against
its strategic objectives. Develop, implement and maintain community
development policies. Design and implement integrated development
programmes that facilitate empowerment of communities towards sustainable
livelihood. Manage physical, financial and human resources.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
85
POST 15/108 : ASSISTANT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER GRADE 1: YOUTH
& WOMEN DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DSD/2026/72 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R626 454 per annum (Level CD – A9)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in
Development Studies / Diaconiology / Social Sciences / Community
Development / Sociology / Anthropology / Population Studies / Demography as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of eight (08) years’ appropriate experience
in Community Development after obtaining the required qualification. A valid
motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities).
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of individual and group
behaviour, its inter-relations within community structures, dynamics of the
community and current legislation to enable interventions. Knowledge of
community development principles. The ability and competence to manage
community development structures and projects. The ability to influence
individuals and groups to participate in self-empowerment ventures. The ability
to undertake complex research. Problem solving and conflict resolution skills.
Computer literacy. Written and verbal communication skills. Financial
management. Presentation skills. Project management. Human Resource
Management. Policy formulation and implementation. Knowledge of the Public
Service Management Framework, e.g. PFMA, Labour Relations Act, etc.
DUTIES : Coordinate and develop youth empowerment programs (NYS). Provide
outreach programmes for youth. Management of youth and women NPO’s.
development policies and strategies for youth and women empowerment.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/109 : ASSISTANT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER GRADE 1: NPO
CAPACITY BUILDING AND SUPPORT REF NO: DSD/2026/74 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R626 454 per annum (Level CD – A9)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in
Development Studies / Diaconiology / Social Sciences / Community
Development / Sociology / Anthropology / Population Studies / Demography as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of eight (08) years’ appropriate experience
in Community Development after obtaining the required qualification. Valid
motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities).
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of individual and group
behaviour, its inter-relations within community structures, dynamics of the
community and current legislation to enable interventions. Knowledge of
community development principles. The ability and competence to manage
community development structures and projects. The ability to influence
individuals and groups to participate in self-empowerment ventures. The ability
to undertake complex research. Problem solving and conflict resolution skills.
Computer literacy. Written and verbal communication skills. Financial
management. Presentation skills. Project management. Human Resource
Management. Policy formulation and implementation. Knowledge of the Public
Service Management Framework, e.g. PFMA, Labour Relations Act, etc.
DUTIES : Conduct capacity building on NPO’s and internal sector specific training
programmes. Facilitate NPO’s registrations in line with NPO’s Act. Facilitate
departmental special programmes. Monitor compliance with relevant
prescripts. Monitor and update district database of NPO’s.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/110 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: VICTIM EMPOWERMENT REF
NO: DSD/2026/76 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R496 668 per annum (Level: SW-A8)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). A minimum
experience of seven (07) years in social work after registration with the
SACSSP. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Competence in Computer programs like
86
excel, PowerPoint, Microsoft Teams. Knowledge and competence in
implementation of SORMA, DVA, TIP ACT, and National Strategy on GBV.
Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills. Communication Skills. Report Writing
Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of supervision model
within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in Social Work. In-depth
knowledge of social work service delivery model. People management and
empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Coordinate victim empowerment program. Coordinate Social welfare
professional compliance and quality control. Coordinate human trafficking
programmes. Supervise and advise social workers and social auxiliary
workers. Conduct capacity building and skills development and enhancement.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/111 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: NON-INSTITUTIONALISED
HIV/AIDS & SOCIAL RELIEF (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R496 668 per annum (Level: SW-A8)
CENTRE : Capricorn District Ref No: DSD/2026/77 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: DSD/2026/78 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). A minimum
experience of seven (07) years in social work after registration with the
SACSSP. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Competence in Computer programs like
excel, PowerPoint, Microsoft Teams. Interpersonal Skills. Communication
Skills. Report Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of
supervision model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in
Social Work. In-depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People
management and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Facilitate community Home-Based care. Facilitate capacity building
programmes for relevant stakeholders. Facilitate HIV/AIDS programmes.
Facilitate social relief of distress. Conduct capacity building and skills
development and enhancement for social workers.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/112 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1: CARE & SUPPORT TO FAMILIES
REF NO: DSD/2025/79 (X1 POST)
Re-advert
SALARY : R496 668 per annum (Level SW-A8)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). A minimum
experience of seven (07) years in social work after registration with the
SACSSP. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Competence in Computer programs like
excel, PowerPoint, Microsoft Teams. Interpersonal Skills. Communication
Skills. Report Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation Skills. Knowledge of
supervision model within the sector. Knowledge of relevant programmes in
Social Work. In-depth knowledge of social work service delivery model. People
management and empowerment. Knowledge of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Coordinate family preservation services. Monitor and evaluate services to
families. Facilitate and assess dysfunctional families.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/113 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R496 668 per annum, (Level: SW-A4)
CENTRE : Mopani District:
Lebaka One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/80 (X1 Post)
Namakgale Local Office Ref No: DSD/2026/81 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District:
Thohoyandou One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/82 (X1 Post)
87
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). A minimum
experience of seven (07) years in social work after registration with the
SACSSP. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence. (with exception of persons with
disabilities). Knowledge And Skills: Competence in Computer programs like
excel, PowerPoint, Microsoft Teams. Computer Skills. Interpersonal Skills.
Communication Skills. Report Writing Skills. Management and Evaluation
Skills. Knowledge of supervision model within the sector. Knowledge of
relevant programmes in Social Work. In-depth knowledge of social work
service delivery model. People management and empowerment. Knowledge
of NPO Governance.
DUTIES : Ensure that social work services are rendered with regard to the care, support,
protection and development of vulnerable individual, groups, families and
communities through the relevant programmes. Ensure service compliance to
norms and standards. Ensure social worker’s compliance with South African
Council for Social Service Professions [SACSSP] projects. Supervise and
advise social workers and social auxiliary workers. Coordinate and manage all
programmes including transformation of social welfare services. Rendering
support and mentoring social workers. Rendering counselling to clients.
Monitoring and evaluation of non-profit organisations.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/114 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DSD/2026/75 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : Qualifications and Competencies: An appropriate undergraduate qualification
at NQF level 6 in Financial Management / Supply Chain Management or
equivalent qualification as recognised by SAQA. 3 - 5 years relevant
experience on lower management / Supervisory level in Supply Chain
Management. A valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of
persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of The White Paper on the
Transformation of the Public Service of 1997. Good communication and
listening skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to handle pressure.
Conflict management. Policy analyzing and interpretation skill. Report writing
skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Honesty and confidentiality,
customer care skills. Logis literacy.
DUTIES : Develop the business plan in line with the strategic objectives of the
department. Manage demand and acquisition. Ensure effective assets
management. Provide purchasing and stores management. Provide transport
management services within the institutions. Manage financial, administrative
and related functions.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434
POST 15/115 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR GRADE 1 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R471 330 per annum (Level:CD-A7)
CENTRE : Waterberg District:
Mapela Ref No: DSD/2026/83 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District:
Tubatse-Praktiseer One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/84 (X1 Post)
Mopani District (Re-advert):
Lebaka One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2016/85 (X1 Post)
Dzumeri Office Ref No: DSD/2026/86 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in
Development Studies / Diaconiology / Social Sciences / Community
Development / Sociology / Anthropology / Population Studies / Demography as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of seven (07) years’ appropriate experience
in Community Development after obtaining the required qualification. Valid
motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities)
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding of individual and group
behaviour, inter relations within community structures, dynamics of the
88
community and current legislation to enable interventions. The ability and
competence to manage community development structures and projects. The
ability to influence individuals and groups to participate in their own self-
empowerment ventures. Research and report writing skills. Problem solving
and conflict resolution skills. Computer literacy. Financial management.
Presentation skills. Project management. People Management. Knowledge of
the Public Service Management Framework, e.g. PFMA, Labour Relations Act,
etc.
DUTIES : Manage community development structures and projects. Supervise the
identification, facilitation and implementation of integrated community
development interventions in partnership with the community and other
relevant stakeholders. Supervise and support community development
practitioners to ensure that there are communication and coordination with all
the relevant role players, internal and external. Perform administrative support
on community development and related activities. Keep up to date with the
new developments in the community development field to enhance service
delivery.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/116 : SENIOR PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: DEMAND &
ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD/2025/87 (X1 POST)
Re-advert
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualifications in Financial
Management / SCM / Procurement Management as recognised by SAQA. 2–
3 years relevant experience. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the
exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good communication and listening
skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Government financial systems (e.g.,
BAS, LOGIS). Ability to handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis
and interpretation skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical
thinking. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care skills. Logis literacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate the requisition of quotations. Receive approved specifications/Terms
of References (TORs) for advertisement of bids and invitation of quotations.
Issue out requests for quotations. Closing of the bids and price quotations.
Record bids & quotations in the receipt registers and compilation of the
checklists. Facilitate bid specification and evaluation processes. Compile the
appointment letters for bid evaluation and specification committee members.
Serve as the secretariat of the bid evaluation and specification committees.
Facilitate compliance with SCM prescripts. Facilitate departmental supplier
database or CSD (Central Supplier Database) interface. Request quotations
from suppliers. Receive, evaluate and adjudicate quotations. Supervise the
subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015) 230 4422 / 4315 /
4375 / 4434.
POST 15/117 : SOCIAL WORKER GRADE 1 (X11 POSTS)
SALARY : R338 208 per annum (Level: SW-A4)
CENTRE : Capricorn District (X2 Posts):
Sekutupu Old Age Home Ref No: DSD/2026/88 (X1 Post)
Lepelle-Nkumpi: Slypsteen Clinic Ref No: DSD/2026/89 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District (X4 Posts):
Lephalale-Steenbokpan Ref No: DSD/2026/90 (X1 Post)
Alma Ref No: DSD/2026/91 (X1 Post)
Rooiberg Ref No: DSD/2026/92 (X1 Post)
Thabaleshoba Ref No: DSD/2026/93 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District (X2 Posts):
Tubatse-Praktiseer One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/94 (X1 Post)
Makhuduthamaga-Schoonoord Ref No: DSD/2026/95 (X1 Post)
Mopani District:
Giyani Local Office Ref No: DSD/2026/96 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District (X2 Posts):
89
Tshaulu One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/97 (X1 Post)
Mavambe Clinic Ref No: DSD/2026/98 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Social Work as recognised by SAQA. Current registration with the
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). Valid motor
vehicle driver’s license (with exception of persons with disabilities). Knowledge:
Skills And Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour,
social system and skills to intervene at a point where people interact with their
environmental environment in order to promote their well-being. Knowledge of
programme and project management skills. Information and knowledge
management skills. People management and empowerment skills.
Communication and coordination skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Render social work services with regard to care, protection and development
of vulnerable individuals, group, families and communities. Provide individual
and group counselling. Conduct advance and specialized assessment aimed
at identifying condition and justify relevant intervention. Implement the
recommendations on the appropriate intervention required to address the
needs and provide continuous support. Produce and maintain records of social
work interventions, processes and outcomes. Undertake social work research
and development, contribute to and assist with the development of policies.
Perform all the administrative functions required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/118 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PURCHASING & STORES
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DSD/2026/99 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Mopani District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 6 or equivalent qualification in
Financial Management/SCM /Procurement Management as recognized by
SAQA as recognised by SAQA. 1 - 2 years’ relevant experience. Valid motor
vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception of persons with disabilities).
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Acts, policies
and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good
communication and listening skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to
handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis and interpretation
skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Honesty
and confidentiality, customer care skills. Logis literacy.
DUTIES : Develop a purchasing plan or strategy. Purchase goods and services that meet
user’s requirements. Ensure that contractual obligations are met. Administer
the flow of orders as well as ensuring that all orders are invoiced. Receive and
process requisition. Ensure that the service level agreements are met. Monitor
and make quality assurance of the incoming and outgoing requisition. Ensure
that requisitions are in line with the BEE as well as the South African Vendor
Market Perform purchasing management services. Provide stores
management services. Maintain record keeping in issuing and receiving of
stock. Monitor stock-taking. Identify needs and prepare request to purchase.
Ensure that stocktaking and stock counting is done appropriately. Ensure the
stock take report is signed by the district head / Institution Head and all
committee members and thereafter submit the report to the provincial office.
Receive stock from the suppliers. Issuing of stock to customers. Coordinate
disposal of damaged stock. Ensure alignment of physical stock against LOGIS.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/119 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK: PERSONNEL RECORD REF NO: DSD/2026/100
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. Qualifications/Certificate in Records and Archives will
be an added advantage. A minimum of 3-5 years’ experience in
Records/Registry. A valid motor vehicle driver’s licence. (with the exception of
persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of registry duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, and operate computer. Working
knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
90
Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in terms of the
working environment. Understanding of the work in registry.
DUTIES : Supervise and provide registry counter services. Supervise the handling of
incoming and outgoing correspondence. Supervise and render an effective
filing and record management service. Supervise the operation and operate
office machines in relation to the registry function. Supervise the processing
and process documents for archiving and/disposal. Supervise human
resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/120 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R289 296 per annum (Level CD- A4)
CENTRE : Capricorn District:
Ratshatsha Ref No: DSD/2026/101 (X2 Posts)
Waterberg District (X3 Posts):
Northam Ref No: DSD/2026/102 (X1 Post)
Bela-Bela Ref No: DSD/2026/103 (X1 Post)
Modimolle-Phagameng Ref No: DSD/2026/104 (X1 Post)
Mopani District:
Mavele Clinic Ref No: DSD/2026/105 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune District:
ATOK (MPCC) Ref No: DSD/2026/106 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF 6 or equivalent qualification in
Development Studies / Diaconiology / Social Sciences / Community
Development / Sociology / Anthropology / Population Studies / Demography as
recognized by SAQA. Valid motor vehicle driver’s licence (with the exception
of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of community
development work, skills, attitudes and values of communities. Knowledge and
understanding of human behaviour, social systems and relevant legislations.
The ability and competence to co-ordinate community development structures.
The ability to influence individuals and group to participate in self-
empowerment ventures. Understanding of social dynamics of communities.
Knowledge and understanding of basic financial management. Presentation
skills. Computer literacy. Written and verbal communication skills. Facilitation
skills. Research skills. Project management.
DUTIES : Identify and facilitate the implementation of integrated community development
interventions in partnership with the community and other relevant
stakeholders. Collaborate and liaise with pertinent role players and
stakeholders to establish partnerships to ensure the sustainability of
development actions within the community. Support communities and perform
administrative support on community development and related activities. Keep
abreast of new developments in the community development field to enhance
service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/121 : ARTISAN (PRODUCTION) REF NO: DSD/2026/107 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade A: R253 341 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized Trade Test Certificate as recognised by SAQA. A
valid motor vehicle driver’s license (with exception of people with disabilities).
Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge of relevant Acts and regulations. Electrical
maintenance Manual. Health and safety measures. Technical analysis.
Computer aided technical applications. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Production, process knowledge and skills. Problem
solving and analysis. Decision making. Teamwork. Analytical skills. Creativity.
Self-Management. Customer focus and responsiveness. Good
Communication Skills. Computer skills. Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Maintain and repair of electricals in the facility. Identification of minor electrical
faults. Construction of all minor electrical projects. Attend to job cards. Perform
electrical related duties. Do electrical faults finding.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
91
POST 15/122 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: EXPENDITURE & ACCOUNTS REF NO:
DSD/2026/108 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Waterberg District
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 4(Grade 12) or equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Knowledge and Skills: Good
communication and listening skills, Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to
handle pressure. Conflict management. Policy analysis and interpretation
skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis and analytical thinking. Honesty
and confidentiality, customer care skills.
DUTIES : Archiving of payment vouchers. Process and handle payment enquiries. Attend
to client’s queries on payments Assist in performing creditor’s reconciliation.
Receive goods on the system after they have been received manually. Maintain
payment register. Update the register on daily basis.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/123 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: ADMDIN SUPPORT (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Capricorn District:
Lepelle-Nkumpi: Mafefe Ref No: DSD/2026/109 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Office:
Maphutha Local Office Ref No: DSD/2026/110 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. Valid motor vehicle drivers’ licence (with the exception
of persons with disabilities). Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public
Service Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA). Good communication and listening skills,
Good interpersonal relationship, Ability to handle pressure. Conflict
management. Report writing skills. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care
skills.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Provide SCM clerical services.
Provide financial admin support. Assist in collecting statistics. Intake client
information. Filling of records. Distribute food parcels. Updating client register.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/124 : HUMAN RESOURCE CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE PRACTICE &
ADMINISTRATION REF NO: DSD/2026/111 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations, Acts, policies and procedures. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA). Good communication and listening skills, Good
interpersonal relationship, Ability to handle pressure. Conflict management.
Policy analyzing and interpretation skills. Report writing skills. Problem analysis
and analytical thinking. Honesty and confidentiality, customer care skills.
Knowledge of PERSAL.
DUTIES : Facilitate Recruitment and Selection of Employees (Appointments, Security
Background Checks, verification of qualifications, secretariat functions at
interviews/shortlisting, probationary periods etc.). Administration of condition of
service. Administration of Service Benefit. Facilitation of Transfers.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/125 : REGISTRY CLERK (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District Ref No: DSD/2026/112 (X1 Post)
Mopani District Ref No: DSD/2026/113 (X1 Post)
92
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualifications
as recognised by SAQA. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of registry duties,
practices as well as the ability to capture data. Knowledge and understanding
of the legislative framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of
storage and retrieval procedures. Computer literacy skills. Planning and
organisation skills. Good verbal and written communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide registry counter services. Handle incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Render an effective filing and record management service.
Operate office machines in relation to the registry function. Process documents
for archiving and/ disposal.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/126 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER GRADE 1 REF NO: DSD/2026/114 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R200 691 per annum (Level: SW – A1)
CENTRE : Waterberg District: Elizabeth Kgosana One Stop Centre
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate recognized NQF level 4 (Grade 12) or equivalent qualification
and Social Auxiliary Certificate. Current registration with the South African
Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). Knowledge and Skills:
Demonstrate basic understanding of the South African social welfare context,
the policy and practice of development social welfare services also the role of
social auxiliary worker within this context. Define and demonstrate
understanding of the purpose of social auxiliary work also with the role and
functions of a social auxiliary worker in relation to a social worker within South
African context. Consistently reflect the values and principles contained in the
Bill of Rights, and social work profession’s Code of Ethics in service delivery
as a social auxiliary worker. Demonstrate a basic understanding of the South
African judicial system, the legislations governing and impacting on social
auxiliary work and social work. Demonstrate a basic understanding of human
behaviour, relationship system and social issues. Implement appropriate social
auxiliary work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client
system. Use appropriate resources in service delivery to client systems. Work
effectively with social workers and members of multi-sectoral teams in social
service delivery. Work effectively as a social auxiliary worker to address the
special needs and problems experienced by at least 3 of the priority focus
groups in the social welfare. Keep precise records and compile accurate
reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file them
appropriately. Provide an efficient research and administrative support services
to the social worker. Demonstrate basic knowledge of financial matters related
to social auxiliary work. Demonstrate self-awareness regarding personal
capacities, attitudes skills and willingness to develop them further under the
supervision of a social worker.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes. Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Keep abreast
with new developments in the social work and social services field. Perform
administrative support functions in support of social workers as required of the
job.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/127 : CLEANER (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Capricorn District:
Andrew Mehlape One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/115 (X1 Post)
Seshego Treatment Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/116 (X1 Post)
Vhembe District (X3 Posts):
Tshaulu One Stop Centre Ref No: DSD/2026/117 (X1 Post)
Thohoyandou Children’s home Ref No: DSD/2026/118 (X1 Post)
Makwarela Ref No: DSD/2026/119 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 8/Grade 10/AET/ABET, or equivalent qualification.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of
93
basic safety and hygiene practices. Knowledge of infection control and hazard
monitoring. Interpersonal skills. Communication skills. Time management.
DUTIES : Provide cleaning services. Keep and maintain cleaning materials and
equipment. Request and manage the supply of cleaning materials and
equipment. Implement and maintain hygiene and infection prevention
measures.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
POST 15/128 : GROUNDSMAN REF NO: DSD/2026/120 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Sekhukhune District: Tubatse-Leboeng
REQUIREMENTS : Junior Certificate or STD 08/Grade 10/ AET / ABET or equivalent qualification.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Infection control.
Garden materials. Occupational health and safety act. White paper on
transformation in the public services. Good communication skills. Interpersonal
skills. Ability to read and write.
DUTIES : Maintain premises and surrounding. Clean premises and surrounding. Empty
dirty bins. Maintain the garden. Watering the garden. Prune and trim flowers
and trees. Mow the grass. Remove weeds and garden refuse. Apply
insecticides. Cultivate the soil for trees and flowers. Maintain gardening
equipment’s and tools. Detect and report malfunctioning of gardening
equipments and tools. Repair minor defects of gardening equipment and tools.
ENQUIRIES : General enquiries about the advertised posts should be directed to Mr S
Rasivumo / Ms ME Gafane / Mr LI Mosehlana / Ms MR Semake Tel No: (015)
230 4422 / 4315 / 4375 / 4434.
94
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
OFFICE OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Applications should only be submitted online through the link:
erecruitment.mpg.gov.za. If no correspondence is received within two months
of the closing date, applicants must accept that their applications have been
unsuccessful.
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026
NOTE : The Office of the Premier is looking for dynamic, innovative, experienced and
suitable candidates to fill the posts of Head of Department (Superintendent-
General): Public Works, Roads and Transport; and Deputy Director-General:
Institutional Development Support and Integrity Management in the Office of
the Premier. The Office of the Premier is an equal opportunity employer. It is
the Office’s intention to promote representativity in respect of race, youth,
gender and disability through the filling of these positions - and the candidature
of persons, whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference. The minimum entry requirement
for these posts, i.e. Senior Management Services (SMS) posts is a Pre-entry
Certificate that is obtainable through a course named Certificate for entry into
SMS submitted prior to appointment – and the full details can be sourced by
following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
appointment of the successful candidates is subject to security clearance,
security vetting, employment reference checks, qualifications’ verification and
signing of performance agreements. The recommended candidates for these
posts shall be subjected to competency assessments. The successful
candidates will be required to disclose their financial interests. Applications
should only be submitted online through the link: erecruitment.mpg.gov.za on
the new Z83 form and should be accompanied by a comprehensive CV. Only
short-listed candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/129 : HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (SUPERINTENDENT-GENERAL): PUBLIC
WORKS, ROADS AND TRANSPORT REF NO: HOD/PWRT/2026
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (Level 16), (all-inclusive package). In addition, a 10%
Allowance is payable as Head of Department
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8), as recognized by
SAQA. 10 years’ experience at a senior management level. A qualification in
the built environment will be given preference. Core and Process
Competencies include Strategic Capability and Leadership, People
Management and Empowerment, Programme Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovations, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus and Communication. In addition, the incumbent will have to be sensitive
to the political and strategic objectives of government. The ideal candidate
should have the following qualities: Strong thinking capability. Ability to lead
and align teams of senior professionals and analysts. Strong research, sound
networking and interpersonal skills. Sound people management capabilities.
Good exposure to knowledge management ethos and practices. Proven record
of honesty and integrity as a professional/ manager. Good exposure to project
management practices and systems. Sensitivity to the political-administrative
interface, and appreciation of the policy support role within a politically led
executive decision-making process.
DUTIES : As an Accounting Officer for the Department of Public Works, Roads and
Transport, the incumbent will be responsible to perform the following functions:
Ensure efficient and effective management of public works, roads and transport
matters. Provide strategic leadership to the delivery of public works, roads and
transport programmes. Provide, maintain and manage provincial government
building infrastructure, roads infrastructure, transport and expanded public
works programme. Oversee the implementation and management of the
95
provisions of the Public Finance Management Act and enforce relevant
legislation with regard to the Public Works, Roads and Transport sector.
Manage the provision of risk management services. Manage the provision of
internal audit services. Ensure compliance with the provisions of the Public
Service Act and Regulations, collective agreements and other statutory
obligations by the staff of the Department. Manage financial, human and
physical resources of the Department efficiently and in accordance with
government policies. This is a contract post and the successful candidate will
be required to enter into a five-years’ employment contract and a performance
agreement with the Executive Authority. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to a competency assessment and security clearance.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
POST 15/130 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENERAL: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
SUPPORT AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: DDG/OTP/2026
SALARY : R1 813 182 per annum (Level 15), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate postgraduate qualification (NQF level 8), as recognized by
SAQA. 08 years’ experience at a Senior Managerial level. Core and Process
Competencies include Strategic Capability and Leadership, People
Management and Empowerment, Programme Management and
Empowerment, Financial Management, Change Management, Knowledge
Management, Service Delivery Innovations, Client Orientation and Customer
Focus and Communication. In addition, the incumbent will have to be sensitive
to the political and strategic objectives of government. The ideal candidate
should have the following qualities: Strong thinking capability. Ability to lead
and align teams of senior professionals and analysts. Strong research, sound
networking and interpersonal skills. Sound people management capabilities.
Good exposure to knowledge management ethos and practices. Proven record
of honesty and integrity as a professional/ manager. Good exposure to project
management practices and systems. Sensitivity to the political-administrative
interface, and appreciation of the policy support role within a politically led
executive decision-making process.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and overall management of the Institutional
Development Support and Integrity Management Branch to ensure alignment
with the Office’s objectives and legislative mandate. Support the Director-
General in the effective administration, governance, and management of the
Office to enhance service delivery excellence and operational efficiency in the
province. Provide guidance and support to departments on the development,
review, and implementation of human resource policy frameworks and
guidelines. Oversee the provision of provincial government communication and
information services. Facilitate and provide guidance on the provision of legal
support services. Provide direction on the implementation of human rights
transformation policy imperatives in the province. Monitor the provision of
provincial government information and communication technology services.
Monitor the implementation of integrity management, forensic investigations
and security management services. Ensure the sound management,
monitoring, and optimal utilization of the Branch’s human, financial, and
operational resources in accordance with applicable legislation and best
practice. This is a permanent post and the successful candidate will be required
to enter into a performance agreement with the Director-General (Accounting
Officer): Office of the Premier of Mpumalanga. The Short-listed and
recommended candidates will be subjected to a competency assessment and
security clearance.
ENQUIRIES : Should be directed to the Deputy Director: Internal HRM & D: Ms. SS Monareng
Tel No: (013) 766 2004.
96
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
PROVINICAL TREASURY
The Northern Cape Provincial Administration is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. The
Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment decision. It is the Department’s
intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s). Women and
persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the relevant reference number, should be forwarded as
follows: The Deputy Director: Human Resource Management, Post To:
Department of Northern Cape Provincial Treasury, Private Bag X5054,
Kimberley, 8300 or Hand Deliver to: Metlife Towers Building, Cnr Knight &
Stead, 7th Floor, Post Office Building, Kimberley, or Email Online applications
should be emailed to specific e-mail addresses under each post. E-mail: Ncpt-
HR@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. SB. Louw
CLOSING DATE : 29 May 2026
NOTE : For SMS Posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for
SMS, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name “Certificate for entry into SMS” and the
full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme/. The
successful candidate will be required to provide proof of completion of the NSG
Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme Certificate for
entry into the SMS. Furthermore, candidates shortlisted for the SMS posts will
be subjected to a technical exercise and a compulsory competency-based
assessment. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security clearance process and the verification of educational
qualification certificates. Appointment of these positions will be provisional,
pending the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day
of the interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be
accessed. The successful candidate will sign the performance agreement and
employment contract within three months from the date of assumption of duty.
It will also be required that the successful candidate declare to the EA
particulars of all registrable financial interests. Applications submitted using the
incorrect (old) Z83 form will not be considered. Further note that the new Z83
form must be completed in full and signed in order for the applicant to be
considered. The new employment (Z83) form can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or obtained at any government department.
Applicants are not required to submit/attach copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on application but must submit the new (Z83) form and
detailed curriculum vitae only. The provision of certified documents will only be
required from shortlisted candidates for submission on or before the day of the
interview. Shortlisted applicants will be subjected to qualification verification,
reference checking, security screening and vetting. Non-RSA
Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders will be required to submit a copy
of their Permanent Residence Permits only if shortlisted. In instances where
applicants are in possession of a foreign qualification, it is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only submit proof of such evaluation upon
being shortlisted for a post. Correspondence will be limited to successful
candidates only. The successful candidate will be appointed subject to positive
results of the security clearance process and the verification of educational
qualification certificates. Appointment of these positions will be provisional,
pending the issue of security clearance. Fingerprints will be taken on the day
of the interview. The social media accounts of shortlisted applicants may be
accessed. The successful candidate will sign the performance agreement and
employment contract within three months from the date of assumption of duty.
It will also be required that the successful candidate declare to the EA
particulars of all registrable financial interests. Short-listed candidates will be
expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. The
department reserves the right not to make appointments to the advertised
posts. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate's
suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements and the other
97
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/131 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 494 900 – R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14), (TCE package)
CENTRE : Kimberley
Ref No: NCPT/2026/20 (Department of Roads and Public Works) (DRPW)
Ref No: NCPT/2026/21 (Department of Transport, Safety and Liaison) (DTSL)
Ref No: NCPT/2026/22 (Department of Agriculture, Environmental and Land
Reform (DAERL)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF 7 tertiary qualification in Finance / Accounting or equivalent. Post
graduate qualification in Finance / Accounting or equivalent will be added
advantage. Minimum 5 year’s relevant senior management experience dealing
with financial matters. A valid driver’s license. Skills & Knowledge: Constitution
of the Republic of South Africa. Public Finance Management Act. Financial
Norms and Standard (PFMA, MFMA, Treasury Regulations, Provincial
Treasury Directives). Knowledge of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
budget. Knowledge of legislation, Directives and procedures with regards to
Financial Management (PFMA, MFMA, Treasury regulations, Directives,
Division of Revenue act, Appropriation Act, Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
Act. B.B.B.E.E Policy framework. Knowledge of the Department’s constitutional
mandate. Auditing practices. Business partnering. Labour relations Act.
Research Methodology. Employee Performance Management and
Development System. Employment Equity Act. Policy analysis and
development. Planning and Organizing skills. Strategist. Analytical. Decision-
making skills. Problem solving skills. Facilitation skills and Conflict
management. Computer literacy (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Support and advice the Department on effective utilization of resources and
implementation of strategies: Provide advice on financial related matters for
the fulfilment of the Department’s mandate. Development of financial
management and procedures. Monthly reporting on implementation of projects
and related finances. Oversee and manage the provision of accounting
management services to the department: Develop management accounting
policies, processes and procedures. Conduct medium and long term financial
planning in line with the MTEF processes. Compile budget estimates, monthly
forecast, project planning and produce adjusted cash flow. Advice program and
responsibility managers with regards to allocation, re-allocation, approval of
budget and other budgetary matters. Monitor and report on expenditure trends
and compile appropriation statements. Oversee and manage the provision of
financial accounting, administration and salary administration services: Ensure
the provision of financial accounting and administration services. Ensure the
provision of salary administration processes. Oversee the provision of internal
control services: Ensure the implementation of internal audit
recommendations. Ensure and manage Financial System Controls within
financial management. Ensure compliance in relation of policies, process and
procedures. Ensure financial information and service assurance. Liaise and
manage relations with the Auditor General and other stakeholders. Oversee
the provision of Supply Chain and Asset management services: Ensure and
manage the provision of supply chain (demand, acquisition and logistics)
management services. Ensure and manage the provision of assets and
disposal management services. Oversee and Manage Resources within the
Chief directorate personnel: Training and development of officials.
Performance Management. Work allocation. Asset Management. Ensure
maintenance of discipline.
ENQUIRIES : SB. Louw at 066 210 3891
98
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/132 : STATE VETERINARIAN: ANIMAL HEALTH REF NO: AGR 23/2026 (X2
POSTS AVAILABLE IN WORCESTER AND GEORGE)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc/BVMCh or equivalent
qualification) recognised by the South African Veterinary Council; Compulsory
registration as a Veterinarian with the South African Veterinary Council (SAVC);
A minimum of 1 year post qualification experience; A valid (Code B or higher)
driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Animal Disease
Act, 1984 (Act 35 of 1 984), Meat Safety Act, 2000 (Act 40 of 2000) and the
regulations and policy pertaining to this act; Animal disease control or
epidemiology; Operational competence in surveillance and outbreak response;
Working knowledge of veterinary legislation; Strong stakeholder engagement
capability; Asset management; Personnel management. Skills in the following:
Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Outlook, MS Access, MS Teams);
Proven communication (written and verbal) skills; Ability to work independently
in a team; Ability to work accurately and precisely; Ability to work under
stressful conditions.
DUTIES : Management of the State Veterinary area according to all the relevant
legislation, policies and prescripts; Manage the prevention of the introduction
and spread of controlled and non-controlled diseases according to Act 35 of
1984; Ensure provision of primary animal health care to owners of animals with
specific emphasis on owners of designated groups; Facilitate and control
exports of animals and animal products according to national and international
requirements; Implementation of remedial and control actions if export
requirements are not met; Provision of training, development and awareness
programs (extension and outreach services) to communities with regards to
Veterinary Services, Record keeping and reporting of activities and export data
as required.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Magadla Tel No: (021) 808 5250
POST 15/133 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): NUTRITION AND
PRODUCT QUALITY (STELLENBOSCH) REF NO: AGR 22/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R407 337 – Grade C: R610 131 per annum, (OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Animal Production or equivalent
qualification; Compulsory registration with SACNASP (South African Council
for Natural Scientific Professions) as a Certificated Natural Scientist in the
appropriate field of practice; 3 years post qualification technical scientific
99
experience; A valid driving licence. Competencies: Working knowledge of the
following: Wool sheep and beef cattle production systems, feedlot
management and planted pastures; Programme and project management;
Scientific methodologies and models; Computer-aided scientific applications;
Technical report writing; Data analysis; Policy development and analysis. Skills
in the following: Presentation; Mentoring; Team leadership (work); Analytical
skills; Written and verbal communication; Networking; People management;
Planning and organising; Problem solving and analysis; Change management;
Innovation; Computer literacy; Ability to work independently.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures
Provide technical support and advice; Perform technical scientific analysis and
regulatory functions; Research and development; Human capital development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mulaudzi Tel No: (021) 808 5220
POST 15/134 : AGRICULTURAL ADVISOR: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCER SUPPORT AND
DEVELOPMENT (WELLINGTON) REF NO: AGR 29/2025 R1
SALARY : R413 001 - R586 501 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Department of Agriculture, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 4-year qualification (NQF level 8) in Agriculture or equivalent
qualification within Agricultural field as recognised by SAQA; Registered with
SACNASP or any other recognised professional body; A valid code B (or
higher) driving license. NB People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities,
but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following; Crop and animal production in the specific area,
also markets and value adding; Practical research; Land reform programme
and project implementation; Communication (written and verbal), leadership
and presentation skills; Proven computer literacy in MS Office (Excel, Word,
PowerPoint and Outlook); Problem solving (research skills; Good time
management and the ability to work under pressure (project implementation);
Ability to work in a team; Prepare and deliver good presentations.
DUTIES : Compilation of project submissions and project implementation; Conduct
relevant project evaluation with in the monitoring and evaluation framework;
Deliver continuous support to all farmers, especially developing farmers across
all functions, which include land reform, infrastructure development, extension
and support on production and economic principles, institutional support as
well as capacity building of food security; Assist with research and
demonstration trials under supervision; Provide information on markets;
Facilitate workshops and planning sessions to determine the needs and
progress; Write reports regarding technical progress; Promote sustainable
production systems; Facilitate the development of organisational skills of the
developing agricultural sector; Facilitate relevant training as well as to support
projects; Participate as the member of the project team by giving sound and
technical input for the compilation of business plans; General office
administration; Ensure the implementation of Agricultural Information
Management System (AIMS);Facilitate, engage and provide inputs to
implementing agencies and relevant Commodity Project Allocation
Committees (CPAC’s) in the delivery and implementation of projects; Practise
Batho Pele principles; Uphold the Core Values of the Western Cape
Government.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Chitepo Tel No: (021) 808 5100
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS AND SPORT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
100
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/135 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEPARTMENTAL PLANNING REF NO: CAS 09/2026
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B- Degree or
higher); A minimum of 3 years relevant middle management level experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Policy formulation and analysis
skills; Facilitation and presentation skills; Problem-solving skills; People
management planning skills; Dispute resolution/conflict management skills;
Interpersonal skills, research skills, and the ability to interpret and apply
relevant policies and procedures.50023934, including report writing/writing
skills, analytical skills, understanding of Strategic Planning tools, i.e SWOT
analysis, theory of change, etc. Skills: Numeracy | Literacy |Computer Literacy
| Language skills | Project Management |Accounting/Finance/Audit |Strategic
Planning.
DUTIES : Plan and manage the departmental strategic and operational planning
processes for the department and public entities, including the Strategic Plan
(SP), Annual Performance Plan (APP), and input into the Provincial Strategic
Plan (PSP), including MTEC. Coordinate and facilitate the compilation of
quarterly performance reports and annual performance reports. Facilitate the
departmental Batho Pele and service delivery improvement initiatives; plan and
manage the work of and account for the overall performance of the sub
directorate: people management and financial management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Julie Tel No: (021) 483 3134
POST 15/136 : OFFICE MANAGER, OFFICE OF THE CHIEF DIRECTOR: SPORT AND
RECREATION REF NO: CAS 10/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B- Degree) or
higher; a minimum of 5 years relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge
of the following: Regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have
a bearing on the line functions; Information systems that aid in the
management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function;
Knowledge and understanding of project management. Operational
management, procurement, and tendering Policy development, and
operational management, monitoring and review; Modern systems of
governance and administration; Public service procedures, processes and
systems; Regional and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the provincial government of the Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public; Public finance,
human resources and discourse management processes; the Public Finance
Management Act; National and provincial treasury regulations; and other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective Knowledge and
understanding of the functioning of the Province and the activities of sister
departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the day;
Labor relations legislation and regulations; knowledge and understanding of
performance management in general.
DUTIES : Manage engagements: Develop and maintain systems in the office of the chief
director that will contribute towards improving efficiency in the office. Oversee
and provide effective guidance and advice on the flow of information and
documents to and from the office of the chief director. Ensure the safekeeping
of all documentation in the Chief Directorate’s Office; Verify responses drafted
on matters received from internal and external stakeholders; Prepare
documentation with regard to matters of a complex transverse nature within
the Chief Directorate’s office and advise/sensitize the Chief Director.
Coordinate and report on matters of a transverse nature to the chief director.
Ensure a coordinated secretarial/administrative support service within the
Chief Directorate. Follow up on matters to be submitted (for example, by
provincial departments, municipalities, components,); Prepare a presentation
101
and briefing for the chief director. Assist with the rolling out of projects by
departmental units in terms of follow-up, feedback, and early warning.
ENQUIRIES : Dr. L Bouah at Lyndon.Bouah@westerncape.gov.za
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/137 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CAPE CATALYST REF NO: DEDAT 15/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Development Studies / Political Science / Economics or Town
and Regional Planning; A minimum of 3 years management experience; 3
years economic development experience; 5 years public sector project
management experience; A valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB:
People with disabilities that restrict driving abilities, but who have reasonable
access to transport, may also apply. Competencies: Working knowledge of the
following: Public sector – policy and strategy development and public service
procedures; International experience; Innovations and research outputs
relating to economic catalytic projects; Applicable policies, legislation,
guidelines, standards, procedures and best practices; Management principles;
Public service regulatory frameworks; People management processes; Project
management; Public Financial Management Act and its regulation;
Stakeholder management; Public sector economic development projects.
Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Interpersonal skills; Analytical skills; Planning and organising;
Communication skills (written and verbal); Presentation skills to present to
different audiences; Research skills; Ability to work independently and as part
of a team.
DUTIES : Facilitate catalytic infrastructure projects and programmes aligned to the
strategy and plans; Facilitate and co-ordinate stakeholder engagements, i.e.
Establish fora, steering committees and task teams as relevant and as per the
Cape Catalyst methodology for projects and programmes; Develop, co-
ordinate and manage catalytic infrastructure intervention strategies; Manage
and oversee work of professional service providers; People Management;
Financial Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Bezuidenhout Tel No: (021) 483 3522
POST 15/138 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT OFFICER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DEDAT 17/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government.
102
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); A minimum of 1 year asset management and administrative
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: PFMA; Supply Chain
Management; Procurement Prescripts; LOGIS system or similar; Skills in the
following: Proven Computer literacy in MSOffice Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Communication(written and verbal); Excellent report writing;
Problem Solving; Analytical; Organising and Planning; Ability to work
independently and as part of a team.
DUTIES : Assist with the following: The development, revising and implementation of
asset management policies and procedures; Monitoring, evaluating, and
reporting on compliance with asset management policies and procedures;
Execution and implementation of asset-acquisition, -maintenance and -
disposal plans; Maintaining, monitoring, and reviewing the capturing of all
movable assets in the Asset Register; Receipting and capturing of all movable
assets in the asset register; Developing, implementing, and managing
mechanisms to safeguard assets; Implementing of a system of movement of
assets between locations; Planning and executing the asset verification
process; Investigating and reporting on variances
(shortages/surpluses);Ensuring that the disposal of departmental assets
occurs within the regulated framework; Initiating the disposal of
redundant/obsolete assets; Preparation of monthly reconciliations with
supporting schedules of the Asset Register to the relevant accounting records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Hendricks Tel No: (021) 483 9413
POST 15/139 : PROCUREMENT CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DEDAT 18/2026 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Western Cape
Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability
to capture data, operate computer and collect statistics; Understanding of the
legislative framework governing the Public Service and Work procedures in
terms of the working environment; Skills in the following: Computer literacy in
MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to work independently
and as part of a team and Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Register suppliers on Logistal Information System (Logis) or similar system;
Request and receive quotations; Place orders; Identify redundant, non-
serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal; Verify asset register and
Compile and maintain records.
ENQUIRIES : Ms J Davids Tel No: (021) 483 9148
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 22 May 2026, 17:00PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the advert for the Post 14/162: Works Inspector:
Occupational & Equipment Safety And Health Care Waste Officer, Directorate:
Facilities Management (Sub-directorate: Occupational and Equipment Safety),
Salary R280 278 per annum, Centre: Head Office, Cape Town advertised in
the Public Service Vacancy 14 dated 12 May 2026, with reference number:
14/162. Post has been cancelled.
103
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/140 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (DENTAL) GRADE 1 (MAXILLO FACIAL AND ORAL
SURGERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R2 168 145 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Oral Health Centre, Tygerberg/Mitchells Plain/Gugulethu/Mitchells Plain Day
Hospital Platforms/Groote Schuur Hospital/Red Cross Hospital/Tygerberg
Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Specialist in the speciality Maxillofacial and Oral Surgery. Registration
with a Professional Council: Registration with the HPCSA as Dental Specialist
in the speciality Maxillofacial and Oral Surgery. Experience: A minimum of 3
years appropriate experience as Dental Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA as a Dental Specialist in Maxillofacial and Oral Surgery. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver's licence. Competencies
(knowledge / skills): Proven record of strong leadership abilities. Sound
knowledge of the governance structures and operational frameworks of joint
academic-health service platforms involving universities and provincial
Departments of Health. Knowledge of clinical governance, service delivery
models, and regulatory requirements within public sector maxillofacial and oral
surgery services. Proven ability to conduct and supervise research activities.
Good communication as well as analytical and problem-solving skills.
Appropriate experience in research and clinical supervision and training of staff
and students at under-graduate and post-graduate levels. Demonstrate an
ability to participate effectively in multidisciplinary patient management within
a joint tertiary academic health platform, collaborating with specialties including
ENT, Oncology, Radiology, Orthodontics, Oral Medicine and Pathology,
Anaesthesia, and other relevant disciplines. Good computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel and Outlook. Appropriate experience in Quality assurance and clinical
audits.
DUTIES : Provide a comprehensive Maxillofacial and Oral Surgery (MFOS) clinical
service across the combined academic and service platform, including
Tygerberg and Mitchells Plain Oral Health Centres, Groote Schuur Academic
Hospital, Tygerberg Hospital, Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital,
and designated secondary hospitals. This includes participation in normal
working hours and after-hours duties in accordance with the departmental
roster. Perform administrative activities related to the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of specialist MFOS services. Exercise appropriate
leadership and oversight of staff under their supervision, ensuring discipline,
accountability, and service excellence. Supervision and leadership role with
regards to teaching, training and education of post-graduate and under-
graduate students. Operational and clinical research. Render general and
specialist dental services at the Oral Health Teaching platform.
ENQUIRIES : Dr N Behardien Tel No: (021) 937-3081/3087
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/141 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHESIOLOGY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
104
a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license and willingness to travel
as part of the outreach program. Willingness to work after-hours to meet
operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Evidence of
cross-disciplinary teamwork and excellent interpersonal relationships.
Evidence of planning and execution of clinically relevant and impactful
research projects as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Evidence of
ability to supervise registrars in Anaesthesiology, including preparation for their
Fellowship examination in Anaesthesiology. Excellent communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide Perioperative Patient Care in the operating rooms and critical care
units at the standards required of a Specialist Anaesthesiologist. Teaching and
Lecturing of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care to Undergraduate students,
Postgraduate students and Peers. Evaluation of students and peers. Staying
abreast of latest developments in the field of Anaesthesiology and Critical Care.
Administration: Hospital and University related administrative tasks. Research
related to Anaesthesiology and Critical care, and related topics, which includes
facilitating the research component required by registrars by the HPCSA for
specialty registration and publishing in peer reviewed, accredited journals.
ENQUIRIES : Prof S Chetty, email: seanchetty@sun.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time registration as
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology with the relevant council (including
individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 15/142 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FORENSIC PATHOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Forensic Pathology Services, (Forensic Medicine, Stellenbosch University)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Registration with a Professional
Council: Appropriate registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Forensic Pathology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Forensic Pathology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees) as
Medical Specialist in in Forensic Pathology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA
(or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in in Forensic Pathology. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver's license (Code B/EB). Will be required to
perform routine service autopsies. Will be required to deliver expert testimony
in court proceedings. Will be required to perform work duties outside normal
working hours and away from the base of employment. Availability to travel to
regional facilities to offer a service for limited periods. Competencies
(knowledge / skills): Ability to communicate clearly and discreetly in person and
in writing. Knowledge of the functioning of a Forensic Pathology Department.
Ability to teach and train medical students, Forensic Pathology Officers and
Medical staff. Good interpersonal skills including effective service delivery
within a group situation at all levels of authority. Working knowledge of the
legislation, policies and code of conduct pertaining to Forensic Pathology
Practice in the Republic of South Africa. Research ability. Exposure to post-
mortems, autopsy work and dissection. Creativity and openness to new ideas.
Above-average Computer and software literacy.
DUTIES : Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative service within the Division of
Forensic Medicine by performance of post-mortems of natural and unnatural
deaths. Provide full-time medico-legal death investigative service within the
Division of Forensic Medicine by compiling and completing reports, including
105
all ancillary investigations. Expert testimony in court as well as expert opinion
on inquest dockets or the relevant cases as requested by the Department of
Justice. Academic teaching and training, research, clinical governance and
quality assurance. Support to the Head: Clinical Unit with all administrative
functions of the Division.
ENQUIRIES : Dr J Verster, email: (jverster@sun.ac.za)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a profiling assessment prior to appointment. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 15/143 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (RADIOLOGY) (X2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Victoria Hospital (X1 Post)
New Somerset Hospital (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Radiology. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Radiology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Radiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Radiology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Radiology. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence, willingness and ability to travel. It will
be expected of the successful candidate to participate in a system of
remunerated commuted overtime within the Metro Health Services.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to oversee and report on radiological
procedures, primarily CT-scanning services at a Large District Hospital. Work
with a team of hospital clinicians to optimise use of CT-scanning facilities.
Verbal and written communication. Knowledge and understanding of relevant
legislation, hospital procedures and policies.
DUTIES : Clinical service provision, primarily manage, administer and co-ordinate the
implementation of a comprehensive CT scanning service. X-ray reporting,
provide statistics and strategic planning and assistance for ultra-sound
services. Ensure the maintenance of quality care standards in the radiology
services together with Chief Radiographer and Clinical Manager. Guide staff,
teaching, training and supervision of staff. Efficient use of resources, manage
assets, consumables, and services effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Victoria Hospital: Dr GL Dunbar Tel No: (021) 799-1211:
Graeme.Dunbar@westerncape.gov.za
New Somerset Hospital” Dr J Hendricks Tel No: (021) 402- 6180:
jacques.hendricks@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status)”.
106
POST 15/144 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ORTHOPAEDICS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs)
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Grade 2:
A minimum of 5 years appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health Professional
Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in
Orthopaedics. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as
Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a
Medical Specialist in Orthopaedics. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
Driver’s licence. Willingness to perform commuted overtime and standby
duties, when required. Competencies (knowledge / skills): Appropriate and
relevant experience in orthopaedics as a Medical Specialist. Computer literacy.
Appropriate experience in rendering a comprehensive orthopaedic specialist
clinical service at New Somerset hospital as well as peripheral to outreach
hospitals. Ability to successfully provide an independent orthopaedics
specialist service on a regional hospital level Sound clinical knowledge and
experience in general orthopaedics. Understanding of current health and public
service legislation, regulations and policy including medical ethics,
epidemiology and statistics. Good communication, leadership, decision making
and clinical skills. Ability to teach junior doctors and allied staff. Ability to
participate in continuing professional development.
DUTIES : Provide safe, ethical and high quality of care through the development of
standards and risk assessments in the area clinical setting of Orthopaedics.
Provide a full package of services including after hour service. Develop,
maintain and audit the correct implementation of clinical protocols and
guidelines. Implement and maintain an efficient effective and seamless service
delivery process within the hospital and referring facilities. Plan and provide
continuous medical education to multidisciplinary team members. Manage and
direct performance of junior staff within the area of control. Align clinical service
delivery plans with hospital plans and priorities. Provide specialist services and
support to the clinical head of unit. Ensure compliance with national core
standards. Participate in the continued medical education programme at the
institution. Participate in the extended management activities. Develop,
implement and monitor quality improvement programs. Develop and
participate in outreach programmes. Support a functional referral system that
ensures a seamless health service.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Stewart Mears Tel No: (021) 402-6197 or email:
Stewart.Mears@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 15/145 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs.)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
107
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Grade 3: A minimum of
10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with
the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesiology. Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge / skills): Proven record of effective leadership and organisational
ability in clinical Anaesthesia and Perioperative Medicine. Comprehensive
skills and experience in leadership, administration and management related to
anaesthesia and peri-operative medicine. Computer literacy, good
communication, analytic and problem-solving skills. Insight into challenges in
Health Care in South Africa and Africa, and diversity, transformation and equity.
Ability to function well in a team environment and a team player, with good
inter-personal skills. Strong moral and ethical record in anaesthetic practice.
Strong educational or teaching experience background in both the under and
post-graduate domains. Willingness to participate in the CMSA exams. MMed
in Anaesthesia. Research experience.
DUTIES : The management of specialist anaesthetic patients within the Department and
at related hospitals to Groote Schuur, Red Cross War Memorial Children's,
New Somerset and Mowbray Maternity Hospitals. Provide comprehensive
clinical services. Provide academic leadership in the areas of under - and
postgraduate teaching, training and research. Provide comprehensive clinical
services. Organise and contribute to the anaesthetic skills training courses.
Manage and provide leadership to colleagues and contribute significantly to
the administrative duties of the combined department including, assessments
and performance management. Contribute to the administration and
management of the department and provide outreach and support to referring
institutions. Build and maintain Departmental team spirit and development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Wyngaard Tel No: (021) 404-5004
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Please ensure that you attach an
updated CV.
POST 15/146 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (PSYCHIATRY) (X6 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Rotation through the UCT training platform – which can include Groote Schuur
Hospital, Valkenberg Hospital, Red Cross Children Hospital and Lentegeur
Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence. It will be expected of the
successful candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted
overtime. Willingness to perform emergency and after-hour call cover.
Completed FC Psych Part I Colleges of Medicine South Africa qualification.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Medical research capabilities. Appropriate
knowledge and skills in Psychiatry. Good communication and administrative
skills. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Clinical and corporate governance duties as pertain to services provided at
current placement. Contribute to the teaching and training of Health Sciences
108
undergraduate students. Fully participate in the academic activities of the
designated university as required per regulations to achieve the MMed (Psych)
/ FC Psych qualification. To provide psychiatric services to in-and outpatients
of designated service areas where placement as well as assigned district and
primary level clinical duties. To provide supervision and in-service training to
junior colleagues and other staff. Appropriate clinical experience in psychiatry
after registration as a medical practitioner. Academic teaching, training and
research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Ori (University of Cape Town, UCT) Tel No: (021) 826-5863
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape
Town according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. -Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
POST 15/147 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (PAEDIATRICS) (X8 POSTS)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley (Karl Bremer Hospital, Paarl Hospital,
Khayelitsha Hospital and Worcester Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirement of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and
after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a specific training
hospital but may be required to work across the distributed training platform.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Experience in general paediatrics and/or
neonatology. Ability to function independently at a level of general practitioner.
Diploma in Child Health (or equivalent). FCPaed part 1. Good communication
skills.
DUTIES : To render a comprehensive clinical service in Paediatrics and Neonatology
covering day-time work and after-hours. To provide inpatient and/or outpatient
care, including clinical teaching, administration, management and research.
ENQUIRIES : Dr LG Lloyd Tel No: (021) 938-9842
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. It may become
necessary to second/transfer staff to another hospital/institution during their
period of training, in which case affected staff will be consulted prior to any
decision being implemented. Registrars will function across health facilities, as
per an agreed programme. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment as a Registrar also discontinues.
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
109
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be
on contract. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension
benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their
registrarship should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions.
-The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch
University according to the yearbook and guidelines. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for a change in
registration status)”.
POST 15/148 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC MEDICINE)
(12-Month Contract) (4 Posts)
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 per annum
Grade 2: R1 188 255 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 per annum
(A portion of the package can be structured according to the individual's
personal needs).
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as a Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of who is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years relevant experience after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a
recognized foreign Health Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of
whom it is not required to perform Community Service as required in South
Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years appropriate experience as a Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience
after registration as a Medical Practitioner with a recognized foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform Community Service as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirements of the job: Applicants must have a valid APLS/ PALS
certificate. Must provide after-hours emergency services and participate in
commuted overtime at 16-hours per week. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to work in a professional team. Post-internship experience in general
paediatrics under onsite supervision of a registered paediatrician. Ability to
achieve and maintain good interpersonal relations with staff, patients and their
families. Must assist with the provision of a comprehensive paediatric service.
Completion of /or exemption from South African Community Service Excellent
report, clinical note and referral writing skills. Experience with teamwork,
planning, organizing and coordination. Excellent interpersonal, administrative,
communication, analytical and problem-solving skills Display empathy for
patients, promote advocacy and facilitate holistic treatment. Good time
management.
DUTIES : Provide a high-quality clinical service to patients and their families. Supervision
of junior medical staff to ensure quality of care and good clinical outcomes.
Interaction with (and supervision of where necessary) nursing staff, allied
professionals, and students. Informal teaching and training of junior staff in the
course of clinical work. Teaching (formal and informal) of undergraduate
110
medical students. Effective and efficient administration of clinical services.
Clinical leadership in the workplace. Administration of the HECTIS patient
management system and other WCG health applications. Improve professional
competence by regular self-learning and reflection with the application of
current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : Dr M Salie Tel No: (021) 658-5430 or email:
Moegamad.salie@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 15/149 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: GENERAL (NIGHT DUTY)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Paarl Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 8 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 3 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s
licence. Willingness to work shifts, public holidays, after-hours, standby and
weekend cover for nursing and travel to attend official meetings and/or
trainings. Deputising for the Deputy Manager Nursing: Head of Nursing and
willingness to act for another member of the Nurse Management team.
Competencies (knowledge / skills): Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of
nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing practices and how it
impacts on service delivery in a rural regional hospital environment.
Demonstrates a clear understanding of Infection Prevention Control,
Occupational Health and Safety and Risk Management – including Ideal
Facility and the Office of Health Standard Compliance. Ensure that clinical
nursing practice are rendered by the nursing team and promote quality of
nursing care as directed by scope of practice and standards. Managerial and
leadership skills and values: integrity, innovative visionary, catalyst for change,
self-awareness and confidence, delegation, accountability, problem solving &
decision making, conflict resolution, interpersonal and communication skills.
Very knowledgeable and demonstrates a good understanding of People
Management (Human Resource Management). Demonstrates a good
understanding of financial policies and practices. Knowledgeable about
relevant legislation pertaining to labour relations, nursing legislation, related
legal and ethical nursing practices, relevant public sector policies and
protocols. Computer Literacy in MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Overall coordination, implementation and monitoring of the strategic objectives
of nursing, the facility and the Department of Health. Effective management
and coordination of quality nursing care within set standards and within legal
and professional frameworks. Manage and facilitate both human resources
and financial aspects related to the area being managed. Management of
information through the collection and analysis of data, report writing and
development and implementation of relevant interventions. Policy development
and implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms PT Moleko and/ or Nthabiseng.Ngogela@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/150 : CHIEF CLINICAL TECHNOLOGISTS GRADE 1 (CRITICAL CARE)
SALARY : Grade 1: R598 260 per annum
111
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council (HPCSA) as a Clinical
Technologist: Critical Care. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Clinical
Technologist: Critical Care. Experience: A minimum of 3 years appropriate
experience after registration with the HPCSA as a Clinical Technologist: Critical
Care. Inherent requirements of the job: After- hour’s service is compulsory.
Valid driver's license. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication
skills (verbal and written). Ability to work within a group at all levels of authority.
Must be able to work under pressure. Capable of maintaining confidentiality.
Good computer skills in MS Word and Excel.
DUTIES : Optimal patient care. Equipment Resource Management. Human Resource
Management. Troubleshooting of equipment. Maintenance of equipment.
Training of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Moodley Tel No: (021) 938-4141
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 15/151 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (GENERAL) (FEMALE WARD)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R571 161 per annum, (Plus a 8% rural allowance of your annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Oudtshoorn Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: A
valid (Code B / EB) driver’s licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to
perform overtime, after-hour and weekend standby duties for the hospital.
Willingness to relief the Deputy Manager Nursing and Operational Managers
when needed. Competencies (knowledge / skills): Knowledge and
understanding of Nursing legislation, related legal ethical nursing practices and
framework, as well as labour legislation and relevant public sector policies,
guidelines and protocols. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook).
DUTIES : Manage the clinical services and rostering of staff. Responsible for planning,
managing, coordinating and maintaining an optimal quality Nursing Service as
an Operational Manager in a hospital setting. Participative management and
utilization of Human Resources, to fulfil operational and developmental
functions in the area. Manage and monitor the Financial Resources,
consumables and equipment of the clinical area. Initiate and participate in
training, development and research within the nursing department. Deliver a
support service to the Nursing Service Department and the institution. Maintain
ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CB Olivier Tel No: (044) 604-6104
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
POST 15/152 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MATERNITY)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Otto du Plessis Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus 254) that
allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A post-basic
qualification nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year accredited
with the SANC in Advanced Midwifery and Neonatal Nursing Science (R212)
OR a 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification
(R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the
112
SANC in Midwifery. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience in the
specific specialty after obtaining the 1-year post-basic Nursing qualification or
post-graduate diploma in the relevant speciality. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work shifts, day/night duty, weekends and public holidays.
Be prepared to assist in other nursing units as the operational needs require.
Competencies (knowledge / skills): Good communication and interpersonal
skills. Planning and organisational skills. Knowledge of Legislation and Policies
of the Department of Health relevant to clinical practice.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and within
a professional/legal framework. Assist in effective management and utilisation
of human and financial resources to ensure optimal operational functions. To
assist in the planning and co-ordination of training and research effectively.
Assist to organise a cost-effective service daily and provide support to
supervisor and management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Adams Tel No: (028) 424 -1167
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant specialty.
POST 15/153 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: MENTAL HEALTH)
(X4 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). OR A 4-year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognizable experience in Psychiatry after obtaining the 1-year
post-basic qualification as mentioned above or a post graduate diploma (R635)
accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public
holidays to meet the operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in
all departments according to operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge / skills): Effective communication skills and interpersonal skills.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the Department of Health and
Wellness Skills to plan, organize and coordinate the service by analysing,
problem solving and decision-making. Leadership towards the realization of
strategic goals and objectives of the Mental health unit. Computer literacy in
MS packages (Word, Excel and PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric nursing care within set
standards and professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of human,
financial and physical resources (equipment and consumables). Participation
in appropriate personal /professional development activities: Self, students,
other categories of staff. Ensure efficient and accurate documentation,
113
statistical data collection capturing and participation in research activities.
Assist with the development and the implementation of nursing quality
improvement plans, policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MM Banzi Tel No: (021) 370 1248
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 15/154 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY) (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in
Emergency Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant
specialty. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, day &
night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet the operational requirements.
Willingness to rotate through the emergency platform. Competencies
(knowledge / skills): Knowledge and insight of relevant legislation and policy
related to nursing within the Department of Health Western Cape. Plan,
Organize, & Coordinate the service by analysing, problem solving, and
decision making. Leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and
objective of the speciality clinical department. Display core values of the
Department of Health and Wellness (WCG) on the execution of duties while
practicing within the legislation, regulations and protocols applicable to the
public service.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning and implementation of nursing care plans and the education of
the nursing personnel as a Professional Nurse in the specific speciality clinical
area. Render and supervise specialised clinical nursing care and support
clinical staff with procedures within the specific clinical speciality unit. Utilize
human, material and physical resources and development of self and others.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
114
POST 15/155 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA AND
EMERGENCY) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : u Noon CHC (X1 Post)
Retreat CHC (X1 Post)
Vanguard CHC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in
Emergency Nursing. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts
and after hours (weekends, public holidays and night duty). Must be willing to
assist at other facilities within the Ecosystem. Competencies (knowledge /
skills): Communication skills. Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing
and health service-related acts, legislation and policies. Leadership and sound
interpersonal and motivational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Outlook and
Excel). Ability to facilitate and promote training. Analytical thinking,
independent decision making and problem-solving skills.
DUTIES : Provide optimal, holistic specialised nursing care within set standards and
professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of human, financial and
physical resources (equipment and consumables). Render support to Nursing
Services i.e. relief duties and act as junior shift leader as required. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development, compliance to
professional, legal and ethical regulations governing nursing practice. Assist
with the development and the implementation of nursing quality improvement
plans, policies and standard operating procedures. Ensure efficient and
accurate documentation, statistical data collection capturing and participation
in research activities. Liaise, advise and effectively communicate with the
relevant internal and external stakeholders for continuity of client care.
ENQUIRIES : Ms U Van Ster Tel No: (021) 713-9754 (Retreat CHC)
Mr S Bomvana Tel No: (021) 200-4500 (Du Noon CHC)
Mr K Welkom Tel No: (021) 695-8202 (Vanguard CHC)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a practical/written and oral assessment.
“Candidates who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be
appointed into the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the
necessary qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
POST 15/156 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: ORTHOPAEDICS)
(X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
115
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Orthopaedic Nursing. (R212). OR A 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174)
or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A
postgraduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Orthopaedic
Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
public holidays, after-hours, night duty, and weekend cover for nursing.
Deputising for the Operational Manager: Nursing. Competencies (knowledge /
skills): Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of nursing legislation and
related legal and ethical nursing practices and how this impact on service
delivery. Ensure that clinical nursing practice rendered by the nursing team and
promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards. Effective interpersonal, leadership, organisational,
decision making and conflict resolution skills. Demonstrate a good
understanding of People Management (Human Resources) and financial
policies and practices. Computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Outlook). Knowledge of FBU functions and management (ability to work
collaboratively within FBUs).
DUTIES : Provide comprehensive specialized nursing care provided within a professional
/ legal framework. Participate with the multi-disciplinary team to provide holistic
health care. provide good documentation, care, planning and health education.
Support and participate in clinical practice development initiatives, educational
activities, and research. Effective utilization of human and financial resources.
Provide support services to Supervisor and Nursing division.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken Tel No: (021) 658-5187
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
POST 15/157 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: TRAUMA &
EMERGENCY)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: Trauma and Emergency or 4 year Bachelor Degree in
Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus
R1497) that allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC)
as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma (R635) accredited in
Emergency Nursing. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
116
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound scientific
knowledge of Trauma & Emergency nursing. Good interpersonal skills.
Computer literacy & report writing skills– able to capture and interpret relevant
data. Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards with a
professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources. Participation in
research activities. Provision of support to Nursing Services. Maintain
professional growth/ethical standards and self-development. Provide effective
trauma and emergency nursing care to patients.
ENQUIRIES : Mr WB Smeda Tel No: (022) 487-9200
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the required qualifications will be appointed into
the general stream, and they will be required to obtain the necessary
qualifications within a predetermined period of time. “Candidates who are not
in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification or post-graduate diploma in the relevant specialty.
POST 15/158 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
CENTRE : Drakenstein Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an
Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an Occupational Therapist
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign- qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel within the
Sub district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Adhere to all departmental
requirements and protocols. Provide a holistic occupational therapy service
independently and as part of a multidisciplinary team in a hospital and primary
healthcare setting. Excellent report writing, clinical documentation, recording
keeping and referral writing skills. Sound verbal and written communication
skills. Good computer skills (MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint) Comply with
National Core Standards and or ideal facility/clinic requirements as applicable.
Knowledge of prescription and issuing of assistive devices including mobility
assistive device. Clinical therapeutic skills including assessment techniques,
treatment, discharge planning and follow up as needed. Ability to be flexible
and innovative in response to differing client needs and in line with the BOD
within that area. Basic to intermediate wheelchair seating assessments,
prescription, fitting and issuing of wheelchairs and other relevant assistive
devices/technology. Splinting skills. Applicable therapeutic knowledge and
skills within the field of occupational therapy and rehabilitation.
DUTIES : Provide clinical occupational therapy service delivery to patients at a primary
healthcare level, including transitional care facilities/ intermediate care
117
facilities, and relevant NGO’s applicable to the designated work areas. Conduct
basic to intermediate wheelchair seating assessments, prescription, fitting and
issuing of wheelchairs to wheelchair users. Fabrication and prescription of
various upper and lower limb splints. Prescribing assistive technology for
relevant medical conditions. Participate in ward rounds, multidisciplinary
meetings, and support to specialist outreaches as applicable to the designated
work area. Participate in personal, district, sub district and hospital in-service
and training programs as applicable to the designated work area including
transitional care facilities/intermediate care facilities, and relevant NGO’s. Daily
collection and monthly submission of data as per departmental protocols.
Effective, efficient and optimal use of resources including facilitating the repair
and maintenance of assistive devices. Stock taking and ordering of
consumables and assistive devices as required within departmental norms.
Relevant in-service training and skills transfer. Provide relevant relief duty in
absence of a peer colleague within the ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Dr R Gaffoor Tel No: (021) 877- 6400
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates,
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status”.
POST 15/159 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 TO 3 (DIAGNOSTIC)
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R413 121 per annum
Grade 2: R482 499 per annum
Grade 3: R564 822 per annum
(Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 17% of your annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows for
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Radiographer in Diagnostic Radiography. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the HPCSA as a Diagnostic Radiographer.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic Radiographer in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Diagnostic
Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3:
A minimum of 20 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA
as Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A
minimum of 21 years relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Diagnostic Radiographer in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it
is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Inherent requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB) and willing
to drive to District Hospitals and Clinics. Willingness to work overtime when
necessary. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrate a high level of
technical proficiency with advanced imaging technologies, ensuring the
accurate and timely execution of diagnostic procedures. Strong ethical
standards, effective communication, and teamwork are essential, as the
radiographer will work closely with multidisciplinary teams to provide optimal
patient care. The ability to adapt and work efficiently in a resource-constrained
environment is critical, as is a thorough understanding of radiation protection,
patient safety, and quality management protocols. A commitment to continuous
professional development and a proactive approach to solving challenges
within the healthcare system are also key competencies required for this role.
DUTIES : The Diagnostic Radiographer at Beaufort West Hospital will be responsible for
delivering a full range of imaging services within the hospital, including routine,
trauma, theatre, and mobile radiography. This role extends to providing
outreach radiography services across the district, ensuring underserved areas
118
receive necessary diagnostic support. The radiographer will also maintain
imaging equipment, ensure compliance with safety protocols, and manage the
accurate documentation and reporting of radiographic procedures. In addition,
the radiographer will assist the Chief Radiographer and Clinical Manager in
administrative tasks and contribute to quality assurance and risk management
efforts. Regular participation in training and self-development opportunities is
also expected to maintain a high standard of clinical service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Soldaat Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/160 : CHIEF FOOD SERVICE MANAGER (CATERING)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Education qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/Degree
in Food Service Management (or equivalent qualification). Experience:
Appropriate experience in managing a large-scale Hospital Food Service unit.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, and
public holidays if it is required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
hygiene and safety procedures in an industrial Food Service Unit. Problem
solving, decision making and time management skills. Computer literacy and
the ability to create spreadsheets, word documents and presentations in
Microsoft Office. Knowledge and skills regarding managing the operation of an
industrial Food Service Unit.
DUTIES : Overall management and control of the Food Service Unit. Plan and develop
the strategic management of the Food Services Unit. Manage risks and quality
assurance within the Food Service Unit. Manage all related Human Resource
Management matters of the Food Services Unit. Financial Management and
stock control of the Food Services Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Piet Tel No: (023) 348 1125
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/161 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LABOUR RELATIONS
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma/
Degree in Human Resource Management, Labour Relations or equivalent
qualification. Experience: Appropriate labour relations experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
travel as required in line with the responsibilities of the job. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer Literacy in Ms Office Skills. Ability to work under
pressure, meet deadlines and maintain confidentiality. Knowledge of Labour
Relations prescripts. Presentation and Facilitation Skills.
DUTIES : Effective and efficient advice and support of the institution on matters of labour
relations. Facilitation, development, implementation and evaluation of LR
training. Efficient administration, monitoring and reporting of all labour relations
matters. Effective and efficient administration and handling of misconduct,
grievance and dispute cases. Render an effective administrative support
service to the Labour Relations component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Z Kwinana Tel No: (023) 348-1277
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/162 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCE (DICU) (X14 POSTS)
Directorate: Financial Accounting
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, Based at Stikland Nursing College (X10 Posts)
Garden Route District (X1 Post)
Overberg (X1 Post)
West Coast District (X1 Post)
Cape Winelands District (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree in SCM, Finance, Accounting, Auditing, or related field with
experience in the key performance areas of the job. Experience: Appropriate
experience in Internal Control, Finance and Supply Chain Management
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) manual
119
driver’s licence. Willingness to travel across the province. Competencies
(knowledge/ skills): The ability to interpret and apply financial and SCM
policies, procedures, and prescripts. Ability to compile reports and presentation
thereof. Knowledge of inventory, assets, irregular expenditure, commitments,
and accruals. Knowledge of transfer payments Computer literacy (Microsoft
Excel, Word, PowerPoint).
DUTIES : Evaluate Accounting and Supply Chain transactions for correctness and
compliance with the legislative framework and financial prescripts. Evaluate
inventory within the institutions and ensure that all inventory/warehouse items
reconcile on the Accounting Systems of the department. Evaluate the use and
management of all assets in the institution and ensure that all assets are
correctly accounted for on accounting systems of the department. Report any
discrepancies found and assist Institutional management to implement
corrective measures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A Moya, email: Anele.Moya@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/163 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing, Central Administration office, Stikland
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Expenditure, Revenue, Debtors’ management, Administration of petty cash
and Ledger account maintenance is required. Inherent requirement of the job:
Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
knowledge of BAS and Logis as well as the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, Accounting Officer’s
System of the department of Health. Knowledge of the Accounting Officer’s
System of the Department. Sound knowledge of all financial management
systems and regulations: BAS, Logis, Financial and treasury instructions,
PFMA, BMI. Advanced computer literacy (MS Word, Excel and Outlook). Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Authorise payments on BAS and Logis systems. Manage Asset and Liability
Accounts. Manage staff performance of Sub-ordinates. Check and ensure
compliance of payment batches Compilation and Reporting on IYM, A&L
accounts, Leases, IFS and AFS, Expenditure Claims against other
departments Managing of revenue and petty cash expenditure. Assistance with
Year-end and In-Year Monitoring and monthly reporting and compliance
controls.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A van der Berg Tel No: (021) 831-5822
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical and competency test as part of the
interview process.
POST 15/164 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FINANCE/ADMIN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or Equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate recognizable
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid code B/EB driver’s licence.
Willingness to work overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): The ability to
interpret and apply financial policies, procedures and prescripts. Extensive
knowledge of financial management in the public service, including the
legislative framework. Computer skills and in-depth knowledge of transaction
codes and reports on the following systems: BAS, LOGIS processes.
DUTIES : Identify and correct erroneous expenditure and address a need for training
if/when required. Timeous clearance of Asset and Liabilities accounts. Effective
monitoring of Transfer payments and support to NPO finance and Programme
staff. Ensure effective and efficient compliance with sundry payment
regulations. Provide documented information pertaining to budget related
matters on request from the ASD & SAO.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Dzanibe at (073) 649-0804
120
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment. Bring along recent
certified copies of required documents- not older than 3 months.
POST 15/165 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (MIXED SURGERY, THEATRE
AND PAEDIATRICS) (X3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1:
None after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable experience
in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work shifts, including
day and night duty, weekends and public holidays. Standby duties, overtime,
and to rotate within departments as required, in line with operational needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability
to function independently, as well as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good
patient care. Ability to communicate effectively verbally and written. Knowledge
of the nursing processes & procedures as outlined in Nursing Act and SANC
regulations. Professionalism, good Interpersonal communication skills,
leadership skills and flexibility. Skills to plan, organize & coordinate the service
by analysing, problem solving and decision making.
DUTIES : Ensure quality patient care regarding the identification of nursing care needs,
the planning & implementation of nursing care and the education of nursing &
other personnel. Render advanced clinical nursing care and support clinical
staff with surgical & medical procedures. Utilize human, material and physical
resources efficiently and effectively. Maintain professional growth/ethical
standards and self- development. Display of core values of the Department of
Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LA Campbell Tel No: (044) 802-4371
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subject to a practical. Candidates who are not in possession of the
stipulated registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only
be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status).
POST 15/166 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3 (RX
SOLUTIONS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R275 340 per annum
Grade 2: R318 666 per annum
Grade 3: R343 761 per annum
CENTRE : Clanwilliam Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum education qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus a Post-Basic Pharmacist
Assistant qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-basic) or
Pharmacist Assistant (Post-basic) (Institutional). Experience: Grade 1: None,
after registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post -basic) with
121
the SAPC. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as a
Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-basic),
with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as a
Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-basic),
with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license.
Willingness to work overtime and as a relief in clinics within the Cederberg Sub-
district. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy. Knowledge of
Drug Supply Management Principles. Good knowledge of pharmacy practices
and procedures. Good numeric skills, meticulousness and attention to detail.
DUTIES : Medicine supply. Safe and rational medicine use of medicines and medical
devices. Pharmaceutical care. Financial management. Service delivery.
ENQUIRIES : Sr M Sandt Tel No: (027) 482-1484
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 15/167 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (5/8TH)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R258 201 per annum
Grade 2: R301 563 per annum
Grade 3: R353 013 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows for
the registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Occupational Therapist. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
an Occupational Therapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. One-year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as
an Occupational Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom
it is not required to perform Community Service, as required in South Africa.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years relevant experience after registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational
Therapist. A minimum of 11 years relevant experience after registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa as an Occupational Therapist
in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
community service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A Minimum of 20
years relevant experience after registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. A minimum of 21 years
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational
Therapist in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is not required
to perform community service, as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Therapeutic knowledge and skills in the management of
clients with neurological deficits and other medical conditions. Ability to be
flexible and innovative in response to differing client needs and work within the
MDT/IDT. Knowledge and optimal utilization of community resources.
Knowledge and correct application of internal and external procedures and
prescripts, DOHW ethical codes and HPCSA standards of professional
practice. Ability to guide and supervise students. Appropriate experience
working with persons with complex and varied conditions as an Occupational
therapist in a healthcare setting. Computer literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : Provision of Occupational Therapy services in the field of specialised
rehabilitation and transitional care. Clinical management of clients including
facilitation of re-integration into the community. Support of Supervisory
structures / persons including resource management and adherence to HR
pre-scripts. Participation in training and development including guidance of
students.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C van Genderen Tel No: (021) 370-2441
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
122
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
POST 15/168 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(TRANSPORT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Substructure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accounting as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with extensive experience/competencies that focuses on the
Key Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate
experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code (B/EB) driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Administer the transport needs of Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure (KESS);
which include the transport of documents, goods and suppliers, transporting of
staff for training courses and meetings. Distribution and utilisation of GG
vehicles in Khayelitsha Sub-Structure area. Communication of vehicle
maintenance, incidents and reporting Administrative support services,
including filling, copying, control of vehicles and updating of registers. Assist
with the procurement of goods and services and asset management.
Willingness to travel to all Facilities in Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-Structure.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Lee Tel No: (021) 360-4649
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/169 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: FINANCE
Directorate: Engineering and Technical Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Premises of Karl Bremer Hospital, Bellville)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or Equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a finance environment. Appropriate experience in LOGIS and BAS. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge skills and experience in finance,
procedures, prescripts and legislative framework, PFMA, NTTR and PTI, and
the Accounting Officer’s System of the Department of Health, including
delegations. In-depth knowledge of SCOA codes. Computer literacy skills (MS
Office: Word and Excel). A proven ability to analyse data. Excellent
interpersonal and communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to work co-
operatively with colleagues and stakeholders at all levels knowledge, skills and
PERSAL knowledge.
DUTIES : Capture BAS and LOGIS payments and ensure that all payments are
processed within 30 days. Capture S&T claims on PERSAL and ensure that
the matching report is cleared monthly. Control, verify, capture journals and
report Assets and Liability accounts to supervisor. Management, verify and
follow up on debt accounts according to prescripts. File and safeguard financial
documents and ensure registers are updated regularly. Perform effective
monthly reconciliation of supplier statements. Prepare monthly reporting on
Assets and Liabilities. Management and replenishment of Petty Cash.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Tshangela Tel No: (021) 918 1502
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. It will be
expected from shortlisted candidates to do a practical test.
POST 15/170 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing, Central Administration office, Stikland
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate People Management experience. Appropriate
PERSAL experience as well as experience in Recruitment and Selection.
123
Inherent requirement of the job: Prepared to work overtime when required.
Valid (Code B / EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal, decision making and problem-solving skills. Good
communication skills. Ability to work in a team as well as independently. Ability
to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, debt
management and verification of documents. Responsible for capturing
transactions on PERSAL and audit personnel- and leave records. Handle all
personnel enquiries and correspondence (written and verbal) and file
personnel data, policies, regulations and circulars. Maintain registers, i.e.
PILIR, RWOPS, appointment and service terminations. Recruitment and
selection.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DP Bending Tel No: (021) 831-5829
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical and competency test as part of the
interview process.
POST 15/171 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ECO
SYSTEM SUPPORT)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
(9 Months Contract)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum, plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Head Office (based at Belville)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Accounting or Mathematics as a passed subject or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience that focuses on the Key Performance Area (KPA’S)
of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in Supply Chain Management
practices or system management/implementation, asset verification, inventory
management or consumables support. Inherent requirement of the job: Willing
to travel with the Western Cape and stay in nurse homes where applicable.
Valid driver's licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate
effectively (written and spoken). Computer Literacy particularly in Word and
Excel. Knowledge of asset verification scanning, inventory management and
consumables processes. Conversant with the Department’s procurement
prescripts. Excellent human relations abilities and telephone skills.
DUTIES : Ensure all assets (new and existing) are barcoded as well as barcoding
locations for identification purposes. Scan all assets per location using the
scanning application and support inventory and consumables review activities
at facility level. Using the BI tools, identify assets not verified as well as no-
moving or slow-moving inventory and consumables for investigation. Capture
all movements, balance adjustments, additions, transfers and donations in
respect of assets, and assist with inventory and consumables data clean-up
where required. Perform thorough asset verification, inventory spot checks and
reviews of stockholding points in each directorate as well as spot checks.
Ensure that assets/equipment identified as unserviceable are confirmed for
further follow-up and processing. Roll out and maintain asset and inventory
applications designed for the Department. Perform an effective Helpdesk
service.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Ruiters, email: Jovan.Ruiters@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/172 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: REGISTRY (MEDICAL RECORDS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate medical records experience in the duties of this post
in a medical records registry at a hospital. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work irregular hours (i.e. shifts/weekends), when required. High
ethical standards as incumbent will have access to confidential files. Ability to
lift loads, be on your feet and concentrate for long periods. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): In-depth knowledge of the HIS Clinicom Tracking system,
proven knowledge of medical records processes and procedures. Knowledge
of National/Provincial Archiving Act. Ability to work independently with minimum
supervision and effectively within a team. Ability to work with a high degree of
accuracy and care under pressure. Computer literacy.
124
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient medical records service and folder
management. Complete relevant Clinicom Case Note Tracking system
transactions. Create and maintain an effective filing system. Accurately and
timeously file and retrieve all requested patient folders or case notes. Maintain
filing banks and patient folder covers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Crawford Tel No: (021) 658-5495
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/173 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Patient Reception Services. Inherent
requirements of the job: Must be willing to work 12-hour shifts. Comply with
internal rotation schedules within the component to ensure continued
development and growth for future opportunities and also performing relief
duties as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in
terms of collating, interpreting and inserting data into a spreadsheet. Computer
Literacy (Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, CLINICOM). Good communication
skills (written and verbal). Ability to work under pressure with set deadlines.
Excellent interpersonal skills / Client care skills. Ability to execute duties
accurately and thoroughly. Must be able to work independently or in a team
and under supervision. Working knowledge of CLINICOM.
DUTIES : Handling of state monies and the safeguarding thereof. Perform all duties
associated with collating data onto CLINICOM and rendering of an invoice.
Ensure correctness of patient invoices and estimations. All reception, clinic,
ward duties as well as special offices. Collection of valid documents in order to
classify patients into correct tariff category. Ensuring all appointments are
captured and admitted daily. Maintaining correct filing system for patient
reception services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr D Pietersen Tel No: (021) 938-6253
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. All shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 15/174 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (ASSET
MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and /or Senior
Certificate with experience / competencies that focus on the Key Performance
Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate asset management
experience. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office:
Excel, word and PowerPoint). Good interpersonal and communication skills.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), National Provincial
Treasury regulations and Policies.
DUTIES : Partake in the annual asset count and adhoc inspections. Disposal of
redundant, absolete and unserviceable items in accordance with policies.
Barcoding and tracking of all assets. Updating and maintenance of the asset
register with regard to equipment purchased, donated, transfers and disposals.
Assist with the implementation of relevant asset management policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Kula, email: nyameka.kula@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 15/175 : CENTRAL STERILIZATION AND SUPPLY SUERPVISOR (CSSD
SUPERVISOR)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Service
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Helderberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in Sterilisation
and Decontamination Services as an Operator. Inherent requirement of the job:
Appropriate experience as a CSSD operator. Be willing to work overtime, which
may include weekends. The ability to handle heavy equipment and perform
125
heavy duty functions, e.g. transport of heavy stock trolleys. Supervise service
in terms of control, cleaning, sterilizing, packing, and collecting of instruments
and distribution of sterile instruments. Ensure continues monitoring and
evaluation of staff reporting to you. Supervise and implement the cleaning
control and testing of washing machines, autoclaves and other equipment in
the department. The ability to report defects (test data), to do elementary stock
control. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate Supervisory
experience. Must have numeracy Skills and should be able to think analytically.
Be able to supervise and be assertive. -Sound knowledge of steam sterilisation
practices and Decontamination processes. Strong leadership, strategic,
interpersonal, negotiation, facilitation, counselling, operational contingency
planning, and organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint). Independent effective decision making and problem-solving skills
within the limits of the Public Sector policy framework.
DUTIES : Manage, organise and control Central of Central Sterile Services Department
(CSSD). Human resource management of the CSSD. Financial resource
management of CSSD. -Infrastructure management of CSSD. Maintain Quality
Assurance within the Department.
ENQUIRIES : Sr L Pasquallie Tel No: (021) 850-4747
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessments.
POST 15/176 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (VARIOUS WARDS) (X10 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as an Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade
2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Enrolled Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as Enrolled Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts,
night duty and public holidays. Annual receipt and licence to practice.
Willingness to rotate within the hospital as per operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic communication skills (both verbal and
written. Ability to function effectively as part of a team. Good human
relationships. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and safe
standard.
DUTIES : Provide basic clinical nursing care under the supervision of a Professional
Nurse. Development and implementation of basic patient care. Effective
utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development. Commitment to, and
engagement with, the Western Cape DoH & Wellness values, and a people
centered approach to care. Leadership and good governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken Tel No: (021) 658-5187
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 15/177 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R229 440 per annum
Grade 2: R272 778 per annum
Grade 3: R319 071 per annum
CENTRE : Uniondale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in
126
nursing after registration as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration
as Staff Nurse with the SANC. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts, night duty, including weekends, public holidays as well as overtime.
Willingness to rotate to all wards in the hospital and to assist at the clinics in
the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal relationships. Self- discipline and motivation.
Ability to work in a team across the service platforms.
DUTIES : Development and implementation of basic patient care plans. Provide basic
clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and financial resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self- development. Take
actions to improve quality of nursing care. Participate in infection prevention
and control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Lewis-Peters Tel No: (044) 814 - 1117
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.
POST 15/178 : DENTAL ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 2
Central Karoo District
SALARY : Grade 1: R225 777 per annum
Grade 2: R262 953 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Sub-district PHC Outreach and Support (Stationed at
Laingsburg Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification or prescribed in-
service training (with duration of less than 2 years) that allows for the required
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Dental Assistant. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as Dental Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None after obtaining an appropriate qualification or
prescribed in-service training that allows for the required registration with the
HPCSA as Dental Assistant. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience after obtaining an appropriate qualification or prescribed in-service
training that allows for the required registration with the HPCSA as Dental
Assistant. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence (Code B/EB).
Willingness to travel between outreach clinics within the Central Karoo District.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Adhere to all departmental requirements and
protocols. Sound verbal and written communication skills. Good computer skills
(MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Appropriate inoculation. Knowledge of
patient preparations and dental instruments. Knowledge of the National Oral
Health Policy, National Norms, Standards and Practice. Guidelines for Primary
Oral Health Care, Occupational Health & Safety Act.
DUTIES : Assisting Clinician, maintaining hygienic environment and maintaining infection
control. Planning and packing for outside clinics, marathon sessions and
outreach sessions. Clinical patient care. Stock control, stocking surgery and
maintenance of equipment. Maintain appropriate database of work done.
Waste management and practical patient flow management. Responsible for
own continuous Professional Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Arendse Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be required to do a competency test as part of the interview
process. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
POST 15/179 : TELKOM OPERATOR
Overberg District
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
127
CENTRE : Hermanus Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in operating and
electronic switchboard, PA system, copy machines and computer applications.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willing to work shifts (i.e. night duty,
weekends, public holidays) and work overtime when required by operational
needs. Ability to work in a very physical environment. Physically able to hear
and speak clearly, professional etiquette. Ability to handle and transport
parcels, patient folders, and boxes of paper and push a trolley between offices.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to operate an electronic switchboard.
Excellent listening skills and professional telephone etiquette. Excellent
communication and people skills, with internal and external clients (verbal and
written). Numerical skills and the ability to maintain confidentiality. Computer
literacy in Microsoft (Word, Excel and Outlook). Ability to work under pressure,
independently and unsupervised. Good recordkeeping and organizing skills.
DUTIES : Effectively manage the reception desk. Greet, welcome and give directions to
patients and public professionally. Manage Switchboard, PA system, copy
machines and any other related equipment in Reception area. Manage mobile
and handset phones by reporting faults and requesting replacements, keeping
operator’s directory up to date. Recordkeeping of telephone accounts, PA
system requests, and other related documents. Capture information on
computer applications. Provide administrative support to colleagues and
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CL Langley Tel No: (028) 312-1166
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/180 : LINEN SUPERVISOR
Chief directorate: Metro health Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC) / Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in laundry
services. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to do manual labour
(heavy linen bags) and assist in other departments when required. Able to
handle heavily soiled linen containing human excretions and blood.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Ability to accept
accountability and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised.
Knowledge of Laundry Services.
DUTIES : Monitoring of contracted Hospital Linen service Provider. Monitoring of Hospital
Linen. Supervise hygiene, occupational health and safety. Supervise the
maintenance and control of apparatus and equipment. Management and
administrative function.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Matthews Tel No: (021) 816-8557
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/181 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT
West Coast District
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital, Swartland Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in facility management, welding, painting, carpentry,
and plumbing with general electrical knowledge. Inherent requirements of the
job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work overtime and to
perform standby duties, including weekends and public holidays. Physically fit
to handle heavy equipment and objects. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge and apply the requirements of the Machinery and Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Ability to read and write. Ability to follow written
instructions, including manuals and written procedures. Ability to optimally
utilise allocated resources such as tools and materials and be skilled in the
usage of a variety of tools. Ability to work independently and as part of a team.
Ability to adhere to safety standards. Ability to use a conventional lathe or
milling machine. Must be able to work on heights i.e. on ladders and
scaffolding.
DUTIES : Provide an effective and efficient maintenance and technical support service to
the institutions. Maintenance of installations, machinery, equipment as well as
the workshop and garden tools. Render a support function in the workshop as
128
well as standby duties. Maintain professional growth / ethical and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Kortje Tel No: (022) 487-9202
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/182 : ARTISAN ASSISTANT (TECHNICAL SERVICES)
West Coast District
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : West Coast TB Centre (Based at Sonstraal Hospital, Paarl)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in workshop related tasks. Inherent requirements of
the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C) driver’s license. Physically fit to perform duties,
work at heights and in confined spaces. Must be prepared to work overtime
and perform standby duties after hours, including weekends and Public
Holidays, and be willing to travel and do outreach at ID Hospital, Malmesbury.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in repairs and
maintenance of hospital equipment, infrastructure, painting, air-conditioning,
refrigeration, plumbing, electrical, carpentry.
DUTIES : Carry out ad-hoc maintenance and repair requests, perform or arrange
preventative maintenance on plant and equipment, follow emergency
maintenance protocols, at the hospital and health facilities within the sub-
district. Carry out daily checks on generator, oxygen, and other machinery,
adhere to the maintenance schedule for all facilities, and do regular facility
inspections. Provide specifications for service provider jobs, attend site
meetings, manage contractors. Ensure an organised and neat workshop,
efficient and effective management and control of stock, tools and equipment,
and perform administrative duties and ensure excellent record keeping. Assist
with the management and supervision of the maintenance team reporting to
the Artisan Assistant. Provide assistance and support to managers, supervisor
and colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr HL Siegelaar Tel No: (021) 837-8097
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/183 : TELKOM OPERATOR
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in operating a
switchboard software programme. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to
do shift work (day, night, weekends and public holidays) and be willing to work
overtime when operational needs require. Physically able to hear and speak
clearly. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Listening skills and telephone
etiquette. Computer literacy in MS Office.
DUTIES : Delivering an effective and prompt telephone service to the public, client and
personnel of the hospital. Making announcements, conveying urgent
messages, and locating staff. Support the management of equipment and
systems. Support the efficient HR and financial management of the
component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Piet Tel No: (023) 348 1125
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/184 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X3 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as Nursing Assistant. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration at SANC as a
Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable
experience in nursing after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant.
Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, weekends, public
129
holidays and night duty as well as overtime when necessary. Ability to work in
a high stress environment. Willingness to rotate between Wards.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make decisions
independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good communication
and interpersonal relationships. Knowledge of relevant nursing legislation,
policies and protocols of the Department of Health, Western Cape.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical care). Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Effective functioning within a multi-disciplinary team. Effective
utilisation of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr LK Wagenaar Tel No: (027) 213-2039
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 15/185 : DRIVER (HEAVY DUTY VEHICLE)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate driving experience. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code C1
(Code 10) manual driver’s license. Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP).
Willingness to work overtime, perform standby duties after hours, including
weekends and public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Computer literacy. Ability to accept
accountability, responsibility to work independently, good interpersonal skills
and sober habits. Knowledge of Transport Regulations and Circular no 4 of
2000. Knowledge of routine, maintenance, inspections for defects on vehicles
and safe driving skills. Applied knowledge of the Transport Handbook 1 of
2019. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service.
DUTIES : Ensure an efficient and effective transport service for Tygerberg Hospital,
including transport of personnel, goods and services. Ensure routine
maintenance, inspecting of vehicles and timely reporting of defects. Ensure
vehicles are kept clean, tidy and roadworthy condition. Ensure correct
collection and delivery of bloods and specimens. Assisting with vehicle
deliveries and collections as required on time.
ENQUIRIES : MD Mentor Tel No: (021) 938-4243 or Mr S Rhoode Tel No: (021) 938-5471
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 15/186 : TRADESMAN AID
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate experience in building, air-conditioning, refrigeration, plumbing,
painting, electrical, carpentry, maintenance, and repairs. Appropriate
experience in workshop-related tasks. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid
(Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Ability to do stand-by duties. Willingness to assist
in all facilities in the sub-district within the workshop set-up. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Be conversant with the requirements of the Machinery and
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Ability to operate industrial machinery and
perform welding tasks. Ability to handle heavy equipment, heights, and narrow
spaces.
DUTIES : Assist with the execution of engineering/projects/repairs and internal
maintenance regarding plumbing, carpentry, electrical, glazing, and building
works. Maintain, repair, and clean drains on a regular basis Maintain and repair
general kitchen and laundry equipment. Strict adherence to the Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Assist Artisans in the performance of their duties.
Control over tools, equipment, and materials.
130
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Gabriels Tel No: (023) 316-9623
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/187 : GENERAL WORKER STORES (CART STORE: PHARMACY)
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a hospital environment. Inherent requirements of the
job: Must be physically fit, able to lift heavy boxes and able to be on your feet
for long periods. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Basic computer literature. Sound knowledge and
experience in handling of stock.
DUTIES : Render general messenger service. Answering telephones and delivering
messages. Deliver finished, final and packaged pharmaceutical items to
designated areas within Tygerberg Hospital Complex. Uplift packages from
wards and other areas if need be. Check external appearance for damage and
accuracy. Uphold the cold chain. Report all deviations and discrepancies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Isaacs Tel No: (021) 938-4798
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 15/188 : PORTER
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading, writing and numerical abilities.
Experience: Appropriate experience in a hospital environment. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts including nightshifts,
weekends and public holiday. Willingness to handle bodies (corpses). Ability to
handle heavy objects.
DUTIES : Accompany walking patients and transport sitting/non-walking patients per
wheelchair/trolley from reception to the wards or from the wards to the
treatment centres. Direct or accompany visitors to various destinations. Assist
with the loading of patients in/out of ambulances/vehicles and transfer of
patients to beds/trolleys and vice versa. Carry medical and other
documentation (patient files, reports, etc.) to wards/treatment areas. Assist with
shifting of medical equipment to and from rooms. Responsible for the
cleanliness and reporting of defects of trolleys and wheelchairs. Assist with the
transportation of corpses from wards. Transport of Blood and Specimen.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Snyders Tel No: (021) 658-5457
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/189 : CLEANER
West Coast Health District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Citrusdal Hospital, Cederberg Sub-District
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy. Experience: Appropriate
cleaning experience in a health environment or hospital setting. Inherent
requirements of the job: Must be physically fit to lift heavy objects. Willingness
to work shifts including night duty, overtime, weekends, public holidays as well
as relief in other departments within the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic knowledge of cleaning procedures and the use of
cleaning equipment (electronic and otherwise). Ability to communicate.
DUTIES : Renders effective, efficient and safe hygiene and domestic services in Nursing
Component. Renders support services to Household supervisor. Contributes
to effective management of domestic responsibilities. Contributes to effective
utilisation and functioning of apparatus and equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RH Layman Tel No: (022) 921-2153
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
POST 15/190 : LAUNDRY AID
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Wesfleur Hospital
131
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in laundry services. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to do manual labour (heavy linen bags) and assist in other
departments when required. Able to handle heavily soiled linen containing
human excretions and blood. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication skills. Ability to accept accountability and responsibility and to
work independently and unsupervised. Knowledge of Laundry Services.
DUTIES : Collecting, Sorting and Weighing of dirty, soiled linen. Machine and Equipment
operation, sluicing of linen. Linen Stock Control and management of Linen
Room. Execution of Occupational Health and Safety prescripts and general
environmental safety and hygiene. Support to supervisor and willingness to
rotate in other departments.
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Matthews Tel No: (021) 571 8040
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 15/191 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3: PSYCHIATRY (4
HOURS PER WEEK)
(Contract until 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in
Psychiatry. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist in Psychiatry. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Specialist after registration with HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Technical skills appropriate for investigation. MMED in
Psychiatry and/or FC Psychiatry (SA) qualifications. Facilitation of
management system. Effective and efficient administration. Communication
including report generation, letter writing, consultation. Clinical skills required
of a Medical Specialist Psychiatrist, including assessment, diagnosis and
treatment in a psychiatry outpatient setting.
DUTIES : Clinical Service Provision. Clinical Governance and Administration. Teaching
and Training/Supervision of Junior Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Prof J Joska, email john.joska@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attached an updated CV. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
a written/practical and oral assessment. “Candidates who are not in possession
of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such candidates will
only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable to candidates who
apply for the first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant
council (including individuals who must apply for change in registration status)”.
POST 15/192 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (PAEDIATRIC RHEUMATOLOGY)
(8 SESSIONS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(Contract until 30 June 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist (Paediatrics). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Paediatric. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical specialist in
132
Paediatrics. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as
Medical specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical specialist in
Paediatric (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees). Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical specialist after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Specialist in Paediatric (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in
respect of foreign qualified employees). Inherent requirements of the job:
Applicants must be willing to be flexible with workdays based on service
requirements. Willingness to provide two outpatient paediatric rheumatology
clinics per week. Willingness to provide occasional inpatient support when
required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work in a professional
team. Experience in Paediatric Rheumatology. Ability to achieve and maintain
good interpersonal relations with staff, patients and their families. Must assist
with the provision of a comprehensive paediatric rheumatology service.
Excellent report, clinical note and referral writing skills. Experience with
teamwork, planning, organizing and coordination. Excellent interpersonal,
administrative, communication, analytical and problem-solving skills. Display
empathy for patients, promote advocacy and facilitate holistic treatment. Good
time management. Good teaching and mentoring ability.
DUTIES : Provide a high-quality clinical paediatric rheumatology service both inpatient
and outpatient to patients and their families. Supervision of junior medical staff
to ensure quality of care and good clinical outcomes. Interaction with (and
supervision of where necessary) nursing staff, allied professionals, and
students. Informal teaching and training of junior staff in the course of clinical
work. Teaching (formal and informal) of undergraduate medical students and
post graduate students. Effective and efficient administration of clinical
services. Improve professional competence by regular self-learning and
reflection with the application of current evidence.
ENQUIRIES : A/Prof K Webb Tel No: (021) 658-5415, or email: Kate.Webb@uct.ac.za
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/193 : CHIEF ENGINEER (GRADE A): MATERIALS REF NO: DOI 41/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R1 317 108 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD as
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
133
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Engineering degree (B Eng/BSC (Eng)) or relevant
qualification); Six years post qualification engineering experience required;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer; A valid code B
driving license. Competencies: Technical: Programme and project
management; Engineering, legal and operational compliance; Engineering
operational communication; Process knowledge and skills; Maintenance skills
and knowledge; Mobile equipment operating skills; Engineering design and
analysis knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; Creating high performance culture; Technical consulting; Ensure
material design standards, specifications and quality control processes are
applied and continuously improved; Lead innovation and improvements in road
materials; Support asset management through the use of materials
performance data; Provide technical advice on materials for development
applications, abnormal loads and impacts on the road network; Guide
laboratory testing, field investigations and material monitoring to support sound
decision-making. Generic: Strategic capability and leadership; Problem solving
and analysis; Decision making; Team leadership; Creativity; Financial
management; Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication;
Computer skills; People management; Planning and organising; Conflict
management; Negotiation skills; Change management.
DUTIES : Engineering design and analysis effectiveness; Maintain engineering
operational effectiveness: Governance: Allocate, control, monitor and report on
all resources; Financial Management; People management.
ENQUIRIES : mughtar.petersen@westerncape.gov.za
POST 15/194 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST: MATERIALS LABORATORY
REF NO: DOI 46/2026
SALARY : Grade A: R958 776 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD as
prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Technology in Engineering (B Tech) or relevant qualification; Six
years post qualification Engineering Technologist experience required;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineering
Technologist; A valid code B driving license. Competencies: Technical: Project
management; Technical design and analysis knowledge; Research and
development; Computer-aided engineering applications; Knowledge of legal
compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting; Networking;
Professional judgment; Knowledge of road construction materials and testing
methods; Understanding of applicable standards and laboratory accreditation
systems; Materials data analysis and interpretation; Laboratory quality
management. Generic: Problem solving and analysis; Decision making; Team
leadership; Creativity; Change management; Financial management;
Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication; Computer skills;
Planning and organising; People management.
DUTIES : Manage technological advisory services: Plan technological support to
Engineers and associate professionals in the field; Ensure the adherence and
promotion of safety standards in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements; Solve broadly defined technological challenges through
application of proven techniques and procedures; and Develop, maintain and
manage current technologies; Monitoring and evaluation of technological
designs; Evaluate and monitor existing technical manuals, standard drawings
and procedures to incorporate new technology; Ensure quality assurance of
technical designs with specifications and make recommendations for approval
by the relevant authority; and Identify and optimize technical solutions by
applying engineering principles; Manage administrative and related functions:
Provide inputs into the budgeting process; Compile and submit reports as
required; Provide and consolidate inputs to the technological/engineering
operational plan; Ensure the development, implementation and maintenance
databases; and Manage and supervise technological and related personnel
and assets; Research and development: Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures;
Research/literature studies on engineering technology to improve expertise; To
liaise with relevant bodies/councils on engineering-related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Petersen Tel No: (021) 483 2216
134
POST 15/195 : PROFESSIONAL ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL):
ENGINEERING SERVICES REF NO: DOI 66/2025 R2
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - Grade C: R1 376 199 per annum, (Salary will be
determined based on post registration experience as per OSD prescript).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Electrical Engineering Degree [B Eng/BSc (Eng)] or relevant
qualification; Three years post qualification engineering experience required;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer; A valid code B
driving licence. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Contract
documentation and administration; Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act
and regulations; National Building Regulations and all relevant built
environment legislation; Decision-making and team leadership; Financial
Management; Programme and Project Management; Built environment
experience especially regarding electrical engineering design and analysis in
the construction of office and general buildings and facilities; Computer-aided
design of buildings and services; Design of different electrical systems;
Knowledge of access control and CCTV Camera systems; Knowledge of legal
compliance and formulation of policies in a multi-disciplinary professional
environment; Knowledge of procurement processes; Proven computer literacy
(MS Office/Projects/Revit/ AutoCAD, Communication (written and verbal)
skills; People Management skills; Technical report writing skills; Leadership,
communication, organising skills; Ability to work under pressure and meet
deadlines; Conflict management; Able to work in a team.
DUTIES : Planning for success (Initiative, planning and execution); Serving proudly
together (Communications, management of human resources and quality of
work); Financial sustainability and accountability (Acceptance of responsibility
and management of financial resources); Knowledge management for effective
service delivery (Technical skills).
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Skillicorn Tel No: (021) 483 4605
POST 15/196 : PROFESSIONAL MECHANICAL ENGINEER (PRODUCTION LEVEL)
PROGRAMME/PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE DELIVERY REF NO: DOI
80/2025 R1
SALARY : Grade A: R914 517 - Grade C: R1 376 199 per annum, (Salary will be
determined based on post registration experience as per OSD prescript).
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Mechanical Engineering Degree [B Eng/BSc (Eng)] or relevant
qualification; Three years post qualification engineering experience required;
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer (Mechanical);
A valid code B driving licence. Competencies: Contract documentation and
administration; Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act and regulations;
National Building Regulations and all relevant built environment legislation;
Decision-making and team leadership; Financial Management; Programme
and Project Management; Built environment especially regarding mechanical
engineering design and analysis in the construction of office and general
buildings and facilities; Computer supported design of buildings and services;
Design of different mechanical systems, including but not limited to, HVAC, wet
services and fire engineering; Knowledge of legal compliance and formulation
of policies in a multi-disciplinary professional environment; Problem-solving
and analysis; Knowledge of procurement processes; Proven computer literacy
(MS Office, MS Project, Revit, AutoCAD, engineering applications); Written and
verbal communication skills; People Management skills; Technical report
writing skills; Leadership, communication, organising and teamwork; Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines; Conflict management; Able to work
in a team.
DUTIES : Planning for success (Initiative, planning and execution); Serving proudly
together (Communications, Management of human resources and quality of
work); Financial sustainability and accountability (Acceptance of responsibility
and management of financial resources); Knowledge management for effective
service delivery (Technical skills).
ENQUIRIES : Ms C Skillicorn Tel No: (021) 483 4605
POST 15/197 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION LEVEL): ROAD SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOI 44/2026 (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R407 337 - Grade C: R610 131 per annum, (Salary will be determined
based on post registration experience as per OSD prescribed).
135
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma in Civil Engineering or relevant
qualification; Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council of South
Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering Technician; A minimum of 3 years relevant
post qualification technical (Civil engineering) experience; A valid driving
license (Code B or higher). Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Geotechnical and pavement design of roads; Road infrastructure material;
Technical support service knowledge in respect of material quality control and
management for road and bridge construction; Legal compliance; As-built and
standard specifications; Ability to solve broadly defined technological
challenges through application of proven techniques and procedures;
Communication (written and verbal); Interpersonal skills; People Management;
Planning and organising; Record keeping; Problem solving; Change
management; Knowledge or experience in the condition assessments of
surfaced and gravel roads; Efficient skills in report writing and presenting;
Willing to travel to sites and workaway from home; Efficient computer literacy
and good knowledge of MS Office suite; Team player.
DUTIES : Render technical services in line with qualification; Assist engineers,
technologists and associates in the field; Provide and consolidate inputs to the
technical / engineering operational plan; Promote safety in line with statutory
and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology and produce technical
designs with specifications and submit for evaluation and approval by the
relevant authority; Compile and submit reports as required; Develop,
implement and maintain system databases; Liaise with relevant stakeholders
on engineering related matters; The following will be advantageous: Working
knowledge or experience in the condition assessments of surfaced and gravel
roads; Efficient skills in report writing and presenting; Willing to travel to sites
and work away from home; Efficient computer literacy and good working
knowledge of MS Office suite.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NJ van Gass Tel No: (021) 483 5160
POST 15/198 : ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST: ELECTRICAL (PRODUCTION LEVEL)
REF NO: DOI 66/2024 R4
SALARY : Grade A: R471 720 - Grace C: R717 846 per annum, (Salary will be determined
based on post registration experience as per OSD prescript)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor of Technology in Electrical Engineering (B Tech) or relevant
qualification; Three years post qualification Engineering Technologist
(Electrical) experience; Compulsory registration with ECSA as a Professional
Engineering Technologist; A valid code B driving license. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Project management; Technical design and
analysis knowledge; Research and development; Computer-aided engineering
applications; Legal compliance; Technical report writing; Technical consulting;
Networking; Professional judgment; Skills needed: Decision making; Team
leadership; Creativity; Change management; Financial management;
Customer focus and responsiveness; Communication (written and verbal);
Computer skills; Planning and organising; People management. Problem
solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Provide technological advisory services: Support Engineers, Technicians and
associates in field, workshop and office activities; Promote safety standards in
line with statutory and regulatory requirements; Evaluate existing technical
manuals, standard drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology;
Solve broadly defined technological challenges through application of proven
techniques and procedures; Develop, maintain and manage current
technologies; and Identify and optimize technical solutions by applying
engineering principles. Perform administrative and related functions: Compile
and submit monthly and quarterly reports; Provide inputs to the operational
plan; and develop, implement and maintain databases; Research and
development: Keep up with new technologies and procedures;
Research/literature studies on technical engineering technology to improve
expertise; and to liaise with relevant boards/councils on engineering-related
matters.
ENQUIRIES : Abubakr.Manack@westerncape.gov.za
136
POST 15/199 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND
OPERATIONAL SUPPORT REF NO: DOI 45/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of Infrastructure, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or relevant higher tertiary qualification; A minimum of 3 years’ experience in
rendering a support service to management/ senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: General Support; Financial
Support; Record keeping; Relevant policies and procedures. Skills in the
following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint);
Communication skills (written and verbal); Good interpersonal and decision-
making skills; Planning and Organising; Ability to work independently and as
part of a team.
DUTIES : Provide a secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager; Render
administrative support services; Provide support to the manager regarding
meetings; Support the manager with the administration of the manager’s
budget; Studies the relevant Public Service and departmental prescripts/
policies and other documents and ensure that the application there of is
understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Maharaj Tel No: (021) 483 4123
WESTERN CAPE MOBILITY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/200 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL CONTROL REF NO: WCMD 14/2025 R1
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year B-degree (equivalent or higher qualification); a minimum
of 3 years of middle management-level experience in an internal control
working environment; a valid code B (or higher) driving license. Note: Or
alternative mode of transport for people with disabilities. Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and
best practices that have a bearing on the line functions; Departmental internal
control systems, functions, processes and procedures; Compilation,
implementation and maintenance of an Anti-fraud Strategic Plan for
departmental fraud management; Compilation, implementation and
maintenance of a Fraud Implementation and Operational Plan; Compilation,
implementation and maintenance of Departmental Fraud and Corruption
Prevention Plan; Compilation, implementation and maintenance of a
departmental Corporate Governance Implementation Plan; Public Service Act,
1994, as amended (establishing norms and standards related to Integrity,
Ethics, Conduct and Anti-Corruption in the Public Service); Public Service
Regulations, 2016 (Chapter 2 related to Conduct, Financial Disclosure, Anti-
Corruption and Ethics Management); Public Finance Management Act
137
(PFMA), 1999, National Treasury Regulations and Provincial Treasury
Instructions (promote the objective of good financial management in order to
maximize service delivery through the effective and efficient use of limited
resources); Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, 2004 (provides
for measures to prevent and combat corrupt activities); Protected Disclosure
Act, 2000 (promotes disclosure of unethical conduct that could potentially lead
to corruption); Determination and Financial Disclosure Framework issued by
DPSA; Directive on Other Remunerative Work Outside the employee’s
employment in the relevant department issued by the Minister for Public
Service and Administration; Western Cape Mobility Department’s Policy and
Standard Operating Procedures for the Declaration and Acceptance of Gifts by
Employees; Procurement and tendering processes; Public service procedures,
processes and systems; Skills needed: Proven computer literacy; Written and
verbal communication; Project Management; Accounting, Finance and Audit;
Economic, Financial and Statistical Analysis; Legal Administration;
Presentation; Interpretation; Observation; Planning; Organising; Monitoring;
Decision-making; Results and Quality Management; Problem-solving; Writing
and Reporting; Analytical; Innovation; Ability to work under pressure;
Willingness to work irregular hours and meet tight deadlines; Willingness to
regularly travel away from the office.
DUTIES : Ensure proper governance, losses and fraud management services; Render
assurance services; Plan and manage the work of and account for the overall
performance of the Sub-directorate; People Management; Financial
Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. R Wiggill Tel No: (021) 483 0600
POST 15/201 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: TRANSPORT REGULATIONS REF NO: WCMD
06/2026
SALARY : R338 108 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification) plus an accredited
secretarial diploma and/or administrative qualification on the level of NQF level
5 or a relevant higher tertiary qualification; a minimum of 3 years of experience
in rendering a support service to management/senior management.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Relevant legislation / policies /
prescripts and procedures. Office Administration, Database Management,
Information and Records Management, Procurement processes, Basic
financial administration; Understand the functioning, systems and processes of
government. General information support systems such as BAS and
MYTRACK. Skills in the following: Language; computer literacy, sound
organizational skills, and good people. Written Communication; Client Liaison
and Networking; Report Writing, Research; Problem Solving; Good telephone
etiquette; High level of reliability; Ability to communicate well with people at
different levels and from different backgrounds; Ability to act with tact and
discretion; Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations; Good
grooming and presentation; self-management and motivation.
DUTIES : Provides a secretarial/receptionist support service to the Chief Director;
Renders administrative support services. Provides support to Chief Director
regarding meetings; Supports the Chief Director with the administration of the
Chief Director’s budget; Studies the relevant public service and departmental
prescripts/policies and other documents and ensures that the application
thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Striker Tel No: (021) 483 0258
POST 15/202 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LAND TRANSPORT SAFETY OPERATIONS
REF NO: WCMD 07/2026
SALARY : R338 108 - R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape Mobility Department, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification); a minimum of 1–2 years relevant administrative support
experience. Experience within a road safety environment will be an advantage.
A valid driver’s license or alternative mode of transport for people with
disabilities. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Transport-related
regulatory legislation, policies and frameworks; Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA), 1999; National Treasury Regulations; Provincial Treasury
Instructions; and other financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective
agreements. Project management; Operational management practices;
138
procurement and tendering processes; Public service procedures, processes
and systems; General office administration and database management;
general support systems. Information and Record Management /
Administration; administrative procedures and processes; Computer-based
information systems, people management legislation, prescripts, and
regulations. Skills needed: Numeracy, literacy, computer literacy, project
management, accounting, finance, and audit, economic, financial, and
statistical analysis, legal administration, basic research, analytical, organizing,
planning, time management, and problem-solving.
DUTIES : Render line administrative support services to the sub-directorate. Provide
support services to meetings, planning sessions and workshops. Render
research support services. Render financial support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Haupt Tel No: (021) 483 0999
DEPARTMENT OF THE PREMIER
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/203 : DIRECTOR: ICT SCHOOLS SUPPORT REF NO: DOTP 47/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) prior to appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the
candidate can be appointed into this post. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Proven knowledge of and working experience with the legislation,
regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the
line functions. Proven knowledge and understanding of information systems
that aid in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function. Proven knowledge and understanding of programme and project
management. Proven knowledge and understanding of procurement and
tendering processes. Proven knowledge and understanding of modern
139
systems of governance and administration. Proven knowledge and
understanding of the global, regional and local political, economic and social
affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape. Proven
knowledge and understanding of Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector. Proven knowledge
and understanding of public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes. Proven knowledge and understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements. Proven
knowledge and understanding of the policies of the government of the day.
Proven knowledge and understanding of Labour Relations legislation and
regulations. Skills in the following: Strategic and conceptual thinking in complex
environments. Executive-level advisory and communication skills. Project and
programme management. Ability to translate business requirements into
technical solutions. Strong leadership, planning, organising, and people
management skills. High-level computer literacy and digital workplace
expertise.
DUTIES : Line Management: Provide Strategic management, advice and guidance in
respect of the following functional areas: Roll-out, support and maintain LAN
infrastructure and services at WCG schools. Roll-out, support and maintain
end-user devices and services at WCG Schools and regional corporate sites.
Provide a service desk for WCG schools. Provide user access management
and collaboration services for WCG schools. Research and develop ICT
solutions for WCG Schools. Provide ICT advisory services to WCG schools
and regional corporate sites. Strategic Management (including change
management): Define and review on a continual basis the purpose, objectives,
priorities and activities of the Directorate. Drive the Directorate’s strategic
planning process. Drive the development and management of the strategic and
business plans for the Directorate. Evaluate the performance of the Directorate
on a continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable objectives and
standards. Report to the Chief Director on a regular basis on the activities of
the Directorate and on matters of substantial importance relating to operational
management support. Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation
and prescripts in respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the
activities of the Directorate, and of the resources (people, finances and assets)
employed by it. Foster and promote a culture of innovation within the
Directorate, and the Department. Diligently perform all duties assigned to the
post of Director. People Management and Empowerment: Recruit, develop,
and retain staff in appropriate numbers and grades to achieve the Directorate’s
objectives. Motivate, train, and guide employees to achieve excellence in
service delivery. Manage performance, evaluation, and development of staff.
Oversee workforce planning, capacity building, and service delivery
improvement initiatives. Promote sound labour relations and maintain
discipline within the Directorate. Financial Management: Manage participation
in the budgeting process at Directorate level. Ensure the preparation of the
Annual and Adjustment Budgets for the Directorate. Assume direct
accountability for the efficient, economic and effective control and management
of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure. Assume direct accountability for
ensuring that the correct tender and procurement procedures are adhered to
in respect of purchases for the Directorate. Assume direct accountability for
ensuring contracts are managed effectively and efficiently for the Directorate.
Ensure that all spending is aligned with the strategic objectives of the
Directorate and Department. Report to the Chief Director and relevant
oversight role players/committees on all aspects of the Directorate’s finances.
Assume overall accountability for the management, maintenance and
safekeeping of the Directorate’s assets. Assume direct accountability for
ensuring that appropriate risk management procedures are in place and
adhered to for the Directorate. Ensure that full and proper records of the
financial affairs of the Directorate are kept in accordance with any prescribed
norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Alexander - Evan.Alexander@westerncape.gov.za
POST 15/204 : DIRECTOR: DEPARTMENTAL STRATEGY REF NO: DOTP 48/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
140
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) prior to appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the
candidate can be appointed into this post. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Expert knowledge of strategic management processes. Expert
knowledge of government planning processes and cycles. Proven knowledge
of and working experience with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies
and best practices that have a bearing on the line function. Proven knowledge
and understanding of information systems that aid in the management of
knowledge and information pertaining to the line function. Proven knowledge
and understanding of programme and project management. Proven knowledge
and understanding of procurement and tendering processes. Proven
knowledge and understanding of policy development, and strategy
management, monitoring and review processes. Proven knowledge and
understanding of modern systems of governance and administration. Proven
knowledge and understanding of the global, regional and local political,
economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the
Western Cape. Proven knowledge and understanding of Constitutional, legal
and institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector.
Proven knowledge and understanding of the Public Finance Management Act,
National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies,
prescripts, directives and collective agreements. Proven knowledge and
understanding of Labour Relations legislation and regulations. Skills in the
following: Strategic planning skills. Process facilitation skills. Excellent verbal
and written communication skills. Outstanding planning, organizing and people
management skills. Ability to develop and maintain networks relevant to the
task environment. Systems thinking skills. Ability to leading and direct teams.
Ability to work under pressure/ambiguity.
DUTIES : Line Management: Strategic management, advice and guidance in respect of
the following functional areas: Facilitate the departmental strategic
management process: Coordinate the Departments participation in the
Provincial Strategic Plan (PSP). Advise on the alignment of the Department’s
strategies with national and provincial strategic imperatives. Facilitate the
Department’s strategic and operational planning processes. Coordinate the
drafting of the Department’s strategic plan and annual performance plan.
Coordinate the development and implementation of Annual Operational Plans.
Ensure alignment of departmental policies, strategic planning and budget
processes. Participate and provide inputs into departmental budget processes.
Coordinate the departmental input into the Organisational Functional
Assessments, including developing implementation plans and report thereon.
Facilitate the monthly and quarterly monitoring and review of the Department’s
performance against the annual performance plan. Facilitate the bi-annual and
mid-term review and reporting of departmental performance against its
strategic plan. Facilitate the monitoring of departmental programme and project
performance via the executive dashboard. Coordinate internal capacity
building on performance information management. Manage and coordinate the
Department’s Business Continuity Management system. Ensure departmental
coordination and good governance practices: Coordinate the drafting of the
Department’s annual report. Ensure departmental participation in
engagements with oversight bodies, e.g. MTEC and Standing Committees.
Coordinate departmental inputs in respect of oversight bodies and other
management matters requiring consolidated responses. Oversee
departmental occupational health, safety, security, and personal information
management: Develop, implement, and maintain governance frameworks and
processes. Manage and maintain the OHS electronic system (once
implemented). Coordinate training, awareness, monitoring, evaluation, and
advisory services. Provide administrative and operational support services.
Strategic Management (including change management): Define and review on
a continual basis the purpose, objectives, priorities and activities of the
Directorate. Drive the Directorate’s strategic planning processes Drive the
development and management of the strategic and business plans for the
Directorate. Evaluate the performance of the Directorate on a continuing basis
against pre-determined key measurable objectives and standards. Report to
the Deputy Director-General on a regular basis on the activities of the
Directorate and on matters of substantial importance relating to operational
management support. Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation
and prescripts in respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the
141
activities of the Directorate, and of the resources (people, finances and assets)
employed by it. Drive strategic and operational change management
processes in the Directorate. Foster and promote a culture of innovation within
the Directorate, and the Department. Diligently perform all duties assigned to
the post of Director. People Management and Empowerment: Recruit, develop,
and retain staff in appropriate numbers and grades to achieve the Directorate’s
objectives. Motivate, train, and guide employees to achieve excellence in
service delivery. Manage performance, evaluation, and development of staff.
Oversee workforce planning, capacity building, and service delivery
improvement initiatives. Promote sound labour relations and maintain
discipline within the Directorate. Financial Management: Manage participation
in the Directorate budgeting process, including Annual and Adjustment
Budgets. Assume accountability for efficient, economic, and effective
management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure. Ensure adherence
to procurement, tender, and contract management requirements. Ensure
alignment of expenditure with departmental and strategic objectives. Report on
financial matters to the Chief Director and relevant oversight structures. Ensure
appropriate risk management controls, asset management, and record-
keeping are in place and adhered to.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. DG Basson - Drikus.Basson@westerncape.gov.za
POST 15/205 : DIRECTOR: DIRECTORY, SECURITY AND COLLABORATION SERVICES
REF NO: DOTP 49/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) prior to appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the
candidate can be appointed into this post. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: Knowledge of and working experience with the legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions. Knowledge and understanding of information systems that aid in the
management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function.
Knowledge and understanding of project management. Knowledge of ICT
operational management practices. Mentoring and coaching practices.
National and provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to human
resources management, financial management and supply chain
management. Policies of the government of the day (national and provincial).
Provincial government functions and services. Statutory framework governing
the broad management of the public service. Staff performance management
system. Disciplinary and grievance procedure. Skills in the following: Strategic
and conceptual thinking in complex environments. Executive-level advisory
and communication skills. Project and programme management. Ability to
translate business requirements into technical solutions. Strong leadership,
planning, organising, and people management skills. High-level computer
literacy and digital workplace expertise.
DUTIES : Line Management: Provide strategic management, advice and guidance in
respect of the following functional areas: Transversal Identity and access
management services. Enterprise-wide Messaging and collaboration services.
Provincial Microsoft licensing procurement, allocation, compliance, and
optimisation. Maintenance of internal-facing endpoints and national transversal
systems. Strategic Management (including change management): Define,
review, and continuously align the purpose, objectives, priorities, and activities
of the Directorate with departmental and provincial strategies. Drive the
Directorate’s strategic planning, business planning, and change management
processes. Evaluate Directorate performance against approved objectives,
standards, and measurable outcomes. Report regularly to the Chief Director
on operational performance and matters of strategic importance. Ensure
compliance with applicable legislation, prescripts, and governance
requirements. Foster a culture of innovation, optimisation, and continuous
improvement within the Directorate and Department. People Management and
Empowerment: Recruit, develop, and retain staff in appropriate numbers and
grades to achieve the Directorate’s objectives. Motivate, train, and guide
employees to achieve excellence in service delivery. Manage performance,
142
evaluation, and development of staff. Oversee workforce planning, capacity
building, and service delivery improvement initiatives. Promote sound labour
relations and maintain discipline within the Directorate. Financial Management:
Manage participation in the Directorate budgeting process, including Annual
and Adjustment Budgets. Assume accountability for efficient, economic, and
effective management of the Directorate’s budget and expenditure. Ensure
adherence to procurement, tender, and contract management requirements.
Ensure alignment of expenditure with departmental and strategic objectives.
Report on financial matters to the Chief Director and relevant oversight
structures. Ensure appropriate risk management controls, asset management,
and record-keeping are in place and adhered to. Clients and Stakeholder
Liaison Engage at executive, intergovernmental, and institutional levels,
including: Provincial Cabinet and Provincial Parliament. Director-General and
Provincial Top Management (PTM). Provincial departments. National
departments and agencies (e.g. SITA). Department of Public Service and
Administration (DPSA). Auditor-General of South Africa. Academic and
research institutions. Private sector organisations and NGOs. Local
Municipalities.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Basha - Aneesa.Basha@westerncape.gov.za
POST 15/206 : DIRECTOR: DEPARTMENTAL WORK ORGANISATION CAPACITY
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOTP 50/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package). The
remuneration package consists of a basic salary (70%) and the employer’s
contribution to the Pension Fund.
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate qualification at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. A minimum
of 5 years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level. Successful
completion of the Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) prior to appointment: The nominated candidate will be required to
complete the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (Nyukela) before the
candidate can be appointed into this post. Competencies: Knowledge:
Advanced knowledge of organisation Development discipline, with emphasis
on OD strategy and organisational behaviour. Advanced knowledge and skill
related to process optimization and organizational re-design Proven
experience in utilisation of AI technology to optimize and simplify OD practices
Proven data management skills – conversion of static data to business
intelligence/BI Proven knowledge and understanding of other relevant national
and provincial legislation, policy, prescripts, regulations, codes, directives,
standards, collective agreements, best practices, procedures, etc. Proven
knowledge and understanding of global, regional and local political, economic
and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the Western Cape.
Proven knowledge and understanding of constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector. Proven knowledge
and understanding of public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes. Proven knowledge and understanding of the Public
Finance Management Act, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations, other
financial policies, prescripts, directives and collective agreements. Proven
knowledge and understanding of the functioning of the province and activities
of sister departments. Proven knowledge and understanding of the policies of
the government of the day. Basic knowledge and understanding of labour
relations legislation and regulations. Proven knowledge and understanding of
the staff performance management system.
DUTIES : Line Management: Manage the provision of departmental capacity
development initiatives, though ensuring the: Overseeing the
identification/diagnosing of current capacity levels and defining the
improvement needs. Planning of organisation development capacity
improvement(s) and ensuring the availability of the requisite resource capacity
to execute these iniatives. Overseeing the design, implementation and
measurement of the impact of capacity improvement solution (s). Influence
organisational design methodology and practice to enable an agile and
responsive WCG. As an OD Manco member, joint accountability for the
successful and effective functioning of the Organisation Development unit.
Strategic Management (including change management): Define and review on
a continual basis the purpose, objectives, priorities and activities of the
Directorate. Drive the Directorate’s strategic planning process. Drive the
development and management of the strategic and business plans for the
Directorate. Evaluate the performance of the Directorate on a continuing basis
143
against pre-determined key measurable objectives and standards. Report to
the Chief Director on a regular basis on the activities of the Directorate and on
matters of substantial importance relating to Digital government and ICT.
Monitor and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and prescripts in
respect of adequate and appropriate record keeping of the activities of the
Directorate, and of the resources (people, finances and assets) employed by
it. Foster and promote a culture of innovation within the Directorate, Chief
Directorate and the Branch. Diligently perform all duties assigned to the post
of Director. People Management and Empowerment: Participate in the
recruitment of employees in the numbers and grades appropriate to ensure the
achievement of the Directorate’s Business Plan. Motivate, train and guide
employees within the Directorate, to achieve and maintain excellence in
service delivery. Actively manage the performance, evaluation and rewarding
of employees within the Directorate. Monitor information capacity building
within the Directorate. Ensure involvement in the compilation of a workforce
plan, a service delivery improvement programme, and an information
resources plan for the Directorate. Promote sound labour relations within the
Directorate. Actively manage and promote the maintenance of discipline within
the Directorate. Financial Management: Manage participation in the budgeting
process at Directorate level. Ensure the preparation of the Annual and
Adjustment Budgets for the Directorate. Assume direct accountability for the
efficient, economic and effective control and management of the Directorate’s
budget and expenditure. Assume direct accountability for ensuring that the
correct tender and procurement procedures are adhered to in respect of
purchases for the Directorate. Ensure that all spending is aligned with the
strategic objectives of the Directorate and Department Report to the Chief
Director and relevant oversight role players/committees on all aspects of the
Directorate’s finances. Assume overall accountability for the management,
maintenance and safekeeping of the Directorate’s assets. Ensure that full and
proper records of the financial affairs of the Directorate are kept in accordance
with any prescribed norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Nel Tel No: (021) 466 9513 - Johan.Nel@westerncape.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/207 : STATE LAW ADVISOR: CORPORATE LEGAL ADVISORY SERVICES REF
NO: DOTP 53/2026
SALARY : LP 7: R970 221 - R1 045 197 per annum, in lieu of service benefits per annum
(OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : LLB-Degree (Law or equivalent legal qualification) with admission as an
Advocate or Attorney. LP 7: A minimum of 5 years' appropriate practical post-
qualification legal experience in a legal practice or legal department in the
public or private sector; LP 8: A minimum of 9 years' appropriate practical post-
qualification legal experience in a legal practice or legal department in the
public or private sector. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Laws
relating to public procurement, financial management, administrative justice,
and contract management; General knowledge of constitutional, legal and
institutional arrangements governing the South African public sector and
municipalities; Governance structures, policies, and recommended practices
applicable to public procurement and contract management; High-level ability
to spot restrictive specifications or legal loopholes in tender and/or contractual
documents. Ability to provide firm, independent legal advice in high-pressure
SCM committee environments and intergovernmental and international
relations. Skills in the following: Ability to work independently and as part of a
team; Communication skills (written and verbal); Technical vetting skills and
attention to detail; Innovative problem-solving skills and analytical thinking;
Conflict resolution, interpersonal, and negotiation skills; planning and
organizing skills; and integrity and diplomacy.
DUTIES : Providing SCM Committees with legal guidance on procedural fairness, conflict
of interest, and the legal implications of their decisions; Drafting formal (written)
legal opinions on substantive legal matters relating to Procurement Law, the
Law of Contract, and administrative justice; Reviewing and vetting tender
documents of substantial importance to the Administration to ensure they are
aligned with applicable legislation. Identifying potential legal risks in the "pre-
award" phase and providing guidance on legal risk mitigation; Providing legal
support on contract lifecycle management and ensuring that the interests of
the Western Cape Government, state entities, and statutory bodies are
144
protected; Liaising with the Litigation Unit in relation to matters that are related
to substantial legal opinions rendered, legal advice given, or contracts drafted
or edited in the event of court proceedings relating to procurement law; and
Drafting, scrutiny, and editing of legal-technical correspondence.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Dludla at LegalServicesWC2@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/208 : APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT MANAGER REF NO: DOTP 51/2026
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate B-degree/ National Diploma; A minimum of 3 years
management experience additional to a minimum of 5 years’ experience in ICT
applications development environment; A valid code 08 driver’s licence.
Competencies: Knowledge of and working experience with the legislation,
regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the
line functions; Knowledge and understanding of information systems that aid
in the management of knowledge and information pertaining to the line
function; Knowledge and understanding of project management; Knowledge of
operational management practices; Mentoring and coaching practices;
National and provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to human
resources management, financial management and supply chain
management; Policies of the government of the day (national and provincial);
Provincial government functions and services; Statutory framework governing
the broad management of the public service; Staff performance management
system; disciplinary and grievance procedure. Well-developed skills in
analysis, leading and supervising, numeracy and literacy, computer literacy,
performance management, reporting, strategic and performance planning, and
presenting and communicating information.
DUTIES : To manage delivery of services relating to systems and applications planning,
development, implementation and maintenance; Manage relationships with
client departments and key stakeholders to facilitate and enable the
implementation of system software; Provide services relating to policy and
frameworks and ensure accurate reporting and compliance; Plan and manage
the work of and account for the overall performance of the team; Financial
Management: Ensure efficient, economical, and effective financial control.
Determine projected funds and actively participate in the budgeting processes;
People Management: Manage a team of professionals and service providers
that are necessary to perform and deliver services. Manages the project office,
project managers, and project processes.
ENQUIRIES : Shameemah Begg: Shameemah.Begg@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
145
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/209 : BUSINESS ANALYST: IT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DOTP
52/2026
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or
higher qualification) in information technology; a minimum of 8 years' relevant
experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions. Information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and
information pertaining to the line function.; Project management methodology
and practices; Operational management practices; National and provincial
instruments and legislation pertaining to human resources management,
financial management and supply chain management; Policies of the
government of the day (national and provincial); Provincial government
functions and services; Statutory framework governing the broad management
of the public service; Staff performance management system; Disciplinary and
grievance procedure.
DUTIES : Lead the development, implementation, and reporting of the WCG Digital
Government Strategy and Transformation Plan to ensure strategic alignment:
Develop and maintain IT plans, including capability mapping, strategic planning
of digital activities; Develop an IT planning and/or IT Value framework and
support the implementation thereof. Facilitate strategic alignment and
engagement across government spheres and sectors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Basha Tel No: (021) 483 2933
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/210 : TECHNOLOGY MANAGER: REGIONAL & SCHOOLS ICT SUPPORT (RSIS)
REF NO: DOTP 54/2026
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-
Degree/equivalent or higher) in IT or related A minimum of 3 years of relevant
technical experience, of which 3 years must be on a management level; a valid
code B driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of and working experience
with the legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that
have a bearing on the line functions; Knowledge and understanding of
information systems that aid in the management of knowledge and information
pertaining to the line function; Knowledge of operational management
practices, mentoring and coaching practices, provincial government functions
and services, staff performance management systems, and disciplinary and
grievance procedures.
DUTIES : Render infrastructure and architectural services; Plan and manage the work of
and account for the overall performance of the Sub directorate: People
Management and Financial Management. Render infrastructure and
architectural services; Manage a team that is necessary to perform and deliver
services relating to business and technology planning, development,
implementation and maintenance. Manage a team that is necessary to perform
146
and deliver services relating to business and technology planning,
development, implementation, and maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C De Wet Tel No: (021) 835 4000
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/211 : ETD PRACTITIONER: FUNCTIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRAINING
(STELLENBOSCH) REF NO: DOTP 20/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in the Human or Social Sciences field; A minimum of 3 years
relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Theory and
practice of human resource development, utilising various learning
methodologies and electronic platforms; Statutory and strategic human
resource development frameworks of the public service; Implementation of
human resource development interventions in an adult learning environment;
Theories in the curriculum development environment; Quality assurance in a
human resource development environment; Policies of the government of the
day; Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing the South
Africa public sector; Understanding of Communities of Practice pertaining to
the learning and development (L&D) ecosystem; Understanding of the role of
Knowledge Management in the Innovation space, including linkages to a
repository of smart practices and the WCG Provincial Data Office (PDO) data
hub. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint); Research capability; Curriculum development, including
the online environment; Facilitation and presentation, inclusive of management
level; Future-looking developmental foresight, including Innovative meta
competencies; A “start-up” mentality, thinking out of the box and viewing
problems from multiple angles; Adaptability and agility in decision making;
Understanding of how to leverage technology towards promoting innovation;
Research capability; Curriculum development, including the online
environment; Networking, communication and deliberation capabilities;
Analytical and problem-solving; Conceptual and formulation; Project
management; Liaison, consultation and stakeholder management; Team
building and inter-personal abilities; Willingness and appetite to challenge the
norm/risk taking to arrive at the most effective way to solve problems; Ability to
work across different layers and functions of the organisation and Innovation
ecosystem, and to identify opportunities for creating and strengthening
partnerships.
DUTIES : Provide professional learning delivery services to the Directorate Training with
the following: Presenting training programmes and courses with own capacity;
Facilitation of training programmes and courses presented by experts from
provincial department, as well as those presented by external service
providers; The programming and scheduling of training interventions; Provide
input with the design, development and accreditation of new training curricula,
courses and learning programmes; Provide input into quality assurance
activities in respect of the Quality Management System (QMS) for International
Organisation for Standardisation (ISO 9001:2015), the Public Service
Education and Training Authority (PSETA), and the Quality Council for Trades
& Occupations (QCTO); Provide input into the evaluation and
updating/reviewing/conversion to the online environment of learning
programmes, and liaise with provincial, national and international role-players
in respect of training and development matters; Provide input to the operational
147
work of other units of the Chief Directorate as required, and to the operational
management of the Directorate and Sub-directorate, with particular reference
to the development of business and operational plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Jannie van der Westhuizen Tel No: (021) 865 8008
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/212 : EDUCATION TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PRACTITIONER,
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT & QUALITY ASSURANCE REF NO: DOTP
44/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary qualification (National Diploma/B-Degree or
higher); a minimum of 3 years of appropriate experience within a human
resource development environment. Competencies: Knowledge in the
following: Theory and practice of human resource development, utilising
various learning methodologies and electronic platforms; Statutory and
strategic human resource development frameworks of the public service.
Implementation of human resource development interventions in an adult
learning environment; Theories in the curriculum development environment;
Quality assurance in a human resource development environment. Policies of
the government of the day; Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements
governing the South African public sector; Understanding of Communities of
Practice (COP) pertaining to the learning and development (L&D) ecosystem;
Understanding of the role of knowledge management in the innovation space,
including linkages to a repository of smart practices and the WCG Provincial
Data Office (PDO) data hub. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS
Office Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Research capability; Curriculum
development, including the online environment; Facilitation and presentation,
inclusive of management level. Future-looking developmental foresight,
including innovative meta-competencies and a “start-up” mentality, thinking out
of the box and viewing problems from multiple angles; Adaptability and agility
in decision-making; Understanding of how to leverage technology towards
promoting innovation; Networking, communication (written and verbal) and
deliberation capabilities; Analytical and problem-solving; Conceptualisation
and formulation abilities. Project management, liaison, consultation and
stakeholder management; Team building and inter-personal abilities;
Willingness and appetite to challenge the norm/risk-taking to arrive at the most
effective way to solve problems; Ability to work across different layers and
functions of the organization and innovation ecosystem and to identify
opportunities for creating and strengthening partnerships.
DUTIES : Provide professional curriculum design services to the Directorate of Training
with the following: The design, development and accreditation of new training
curricula, courses and learning programmes within the Sub-directorate
Curriculum Development and Quality Assurance; Undertake quality assurance
in respect of the Quality Management System (QMS) for International
Organisation for Standardisation (ISO 9001:2015) and the Public Service
Education and Training Authority (PSETA); Ongoing evaluation and
updating/reviewing/conversion to the online environment of learning programs.
Contribute to the following learning delivery services within the Directorate of
Training: Presenting training programmes and courses with one's own
capacity; Facilitation of training programmes and courses presented by experts
from provincial departments; Facilitation of training programmes and courses
presented by external service providers; The programming and scheduling of
148
training interventions; Special human resource development projects allocated
to the Sub-directorate; Carry out all course administration; Liaise with
provincial, national, and international role-players in respect of training and
development matters. Provide input in respect of the operational work of other
units of the Chief Directorate as required and in respect of the operational
management of the Directorate and/or sub-directorate, with particular
reference to the development of business and operational plans.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Botha Tel No: (021) 865 8021
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/213 : PROJECT MANAGER: EDUCATION CULTURAL AFFAIRS & SPORT REF
NO: DOTP 55/2026
SALARY : R487 197 - R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-Degree (equivalent or higher
qualification) in Project Management or Information Technology; a minimum of
3 years of Project Management experience in IT Development projects; and a
valid (Code B or higher) driving license. NB: People with disabilities that restrict
driving abilities, but who have reasonable access to transport, may also apply.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Legislation, regulatory
frameworks, policies and best practices that have a bearing on the line
functions; Project management methodologies and processes; Procurement
and tendering processes; Financial budget and cash flow processes; Public
service systems of governance and administration, procedures and processes;
National, provincial and local political, economic and social affairs impacting on
the Western Cape government; Constitutional, legal and institutional
arrangements governing the South African public sector; Public finance,
human resources, and discourse management processes; the Public Finance
Management Act; national and provincial treasury regulations; and other
financial policies, prescripts, directives, and collective agreements. Functioning
and policies of the Western Cape Government; labour relations legislation and
regulations; Performance management in general; project management best
practices, theory, and methodology (PMBOK, Prince 2, Agile); and training and
learning methodologies. Skills needed: Numeracy, literacy, computer literacy,
written and verbal communication, project management, financial
management and audit strategic planning, risk management and monitoring
and evaluation, procurement and supply chain processes, budgeting,
reporting, and stakeholder engagement, and facilitation and problem-solving.
DUTIES : Facilitate project planning and allocation: Coordinate the conducting of needs
analyses and feasibility assessments to inform project scoping, allocation, and
adoption and develop comprehensive project plans and documents. Manage
and coordinate project execution: Manage day-to-day project implementation
in line with approved plans, contracts, and methodologies. Coordinate
multidisciplinary project teams and stakeholders. Establish clear roles and
responsibilities (define roles for each team member and stakeholder based on
expertise and project needs); Facilitate communication and collaboration
through, e.g., regular coordination meetings, collaboration platforms, and
dashboards, and facilitate issue resolution and manage change requests
effectively. Monitor, evaluate, and report on projects: Monitor and track
timelines, milestones, quality, and budgets, and initiate corrective actions as
needed using tools, documents, and dashboards. Report progress to
stakeholders through structured reports, presentations, online reporting
platforms, and review sessions. Evaluate project outcomes against predefined
149
indicators; Conduct impact assessments or coordinate the conducting of
impact assessments by relevant stakeholders (e.g., academia or PTE) and
support knowledge sharing across departments. Oversee financial
management for specific projects: Provide inputs to the directorates, link the
budget to projects, and monitor expenditure, where applicable. Organize the
appropriate scheduling of project-related financial transactions in the
component (as applicable) so that the necessary procedures can be
implemented as required. Oversee project-related provisioning and
procurement (where applicable) and asset management and perform contract
management for outsourced projects.
ENQUIRIES : Shameemah Begg at Shameema.Begg@westerncape.gov.za
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/214 : CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK REF NO: DOTP 46/2026
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification); A minimum of 3 year
relevant experience. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Public
Finance Management Act (PFMA); National Treasury regulations (NTR’s);
Provincial Treasury Directives/Instructions (PTI’s); Broad knowledge on
procurement activities; Procurement policies/procedures/contract
management; Policies of the government of the day, with specific reference to
the provincial growth and development strategy of the Western Cape. Skills in
the following: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word, Excel,
PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Bid Administration and Management and Secretariat Function for all Quotation
Committee’s; Bid Specifications, Bid Evaluation Committee’s and Advisory
function to all SCM Committees; Manage the Electronic Purchasing System;
Contract Administration; Managing RT contracts; Compliance verification of
requisitions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Williams Tel No: (021) 483 0598
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
POST 15/215 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: DEMAND AND LOGISTICS
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DOTP 17/2026
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
150
CENTRE : Department of the Premier, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification).Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Financial norms and standards (Public Finance
Management Act – PFMA, National Treasury regulations – NTR’s, Provincial
Treasury Directives/Instructions – PTI’s); Budgeting processes; National and
Provincial instruments and legislation pertaining to human resources; Financial
norms and standards (Public Finance Management Act – PFMA, National
Treasury regulations – NTR’s, Provincial Treasury Directives/Instructions –
PTI’s); Financial management processes; Broad knowledge on procurement
activities; Industry trends and best practices per commodity groups;
Procurement best practices including sourcing strategies and the different
mechanisms for procurement; Procurement policies/procedures/contract
management; LOGIS. Skills in the following: Computer literacy in MS Office
Package (Word, Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part
of a team; Communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Compliancy checks /verification on all requisitioning and LOGIS payment
documentation; Update of registers of Requisitions and invoices; Invoice /
order preparations and verification prior to payment process; Monitor and
coordinate supplier performance; LOGIS capturing and maintenance; LOGIS
Commitment monitoring and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Hassiem Tel No: (021) 483 6625
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
DEPARTMENT OF PROVINCIAL TREASURY
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : All shortlisted candidates must make themselves available to be interviewed at
a date, time and place as decided by the selection panel. Please ensure that
you submit your application on or before the closing date as no late applications
will be considered. The selection process will be guided by the EE targets of
the employing department. Kindly note that technical support is only available
from Monday to Friday from 8:00 to 16.00. Should you experience any
difficulties with your online application you may contact the helpline at 0861
370 214. All shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a technical exercise that
intends to test relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will
be communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA directive
on the implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS Competency Assessment tools. The nominated
candidate will be required to complete the Senior Management Pre-Entry
Programme before they may be appointed into this post. The purpose of the
Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme, which is a public service specific
training programme applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS, is
to ensure that potential SMS members have a background on processes and
procedures linked to the SMS. The duration of the online Pre-Entry Programme
is 120 notional hours (15 days). Full details may be sourced by the following
link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-preentryprogramme/
Furthermore, thanks to the huge public interest we receive many applications
for our positions, and as such will not be able to respond personally to all
151
applications. Therefore, should you not hear from us within 10 weeks from
close of advert please consider your application unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 15/216 : DIRECTOR: PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
REF NO: PT 07/2026
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF Level 7 qualification (Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent) in
Supply Chain Management, Finance, Accounting, Economics, Public
Management, Logistics, Business Administration, or a related field; 5 year’s
middle/ senior managerial level experience in Supply Chain Management
and/or Asset Management within the public sector; and The successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme (see paragraph 4
in notes below).Competencies: Strategic Management and Leadership;
Programme and Project Management; Change Management; Financial
Management; and People Management and Empowerment.
DUTIES : Strategic SCM and Asset Management Leadership: Provide strategic
leadership and oversight of Supply Chain Management and Movable Asset
Management to ensure alignment with legislation, policy frameworks, and
service delivery priorities. Governance, Compliance, and Risk Management:
Develop and maintain SCM and asset management governance frameworks;
oversee compliance, performance, and capacity assessments; and implement
targeted risk mitigation and improvement interventions; Strategic Sourcing,
Data Analysis, and Reporting: Lead strategic sourcing initiatives and oversee
the analysis and reporting of procurement and asset management data to
support evidence-based decision-making and value for money; Stakeholder
Engagement and Capacity Building: Provide advisory and client support
services, lead SCM and asset management capacity-building initiatives, and
manage stakeholder relationships across government and external partners;
and Financial, Project, and People Management: Manage budgets, projects,
and resources in compliance with regulatory requirements, and ensure
effective people management, performance management, and staff
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Nadia Ebrahim (nadia.ebrahim@westerncape.gov.za) Tel No: (021) 483
4748).
OTHER POST
POST 15/217 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (SYSTEM CONTROLLER): SUPPORTING AND
INTERLINKED FINANCIAL SYSTEMS REF NO: PT 09/2026
SALARY : R487 197 – R573 897 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Provincial Treasury, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate 3-year tertiary degree (National Diploma/B-Degree) in Supply
Chain Management, Public Administration, Management, Financial
Management, Accounting, or a related field; a minimum of 3 years' functional
experience in a financial system environment; and a valid (Code B or higher)
driver's license. Competencies: Knowledge of the following: Local government
sphere legislation; MFMA Treasury Regulations Accounting Principles;
Legislation, regulatory frameworks, policies and best practices that have a
bearing on the line functions; Information systems that aid in the management
of knowledge and information pertaining to the line function; Project
management; Operational management practices; Procurement and tendering
processes; Policy development, and operational management, monitoring and
review processes; Modern systems of governance and administration; Public
service procedures, processes and systems; Regional and local political,
economic and social affairs impacting on the provincial government of the
Western Cape; Constitutional, legal and institutional arrangements governing
the South African public sector; public finance, human resources and discourse
management processes; Public Finance Management Act, National and
Provincial Treasury Regulations, other financial policies, prescripts, directives,
and collective agreements; Functioning of the Province and the activities of
sister departments/related functional areas; Policies of the government of the
day; labour relations legislation and regulations; performance management in
general. Skills needed: Numeracy, computer literacy, communication skills;
152
project management, accounting, finance, and audit. Analytical skills; Report
writing, financial management, and people management.
DUTIES : Render transversal support of maintenance of the financial systems and
access security and controls. Provide support in the management of reporting
processes of the financial systems. Provide capacity building in provincial
departments to enhance the effective utilization of the financial system.
Implementation of applications and financial systems. Monitor compliance and
enforcement of prescribed legislation, policies, and guidelines relating to all
financial system processes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Gordon Tel No: (021) 483 6268
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS : Only applications submitted online will be accepted. To apply submit your
application online only: via http://www.westerncape.gov.za/jobs or
https://westerncapegov.erecruit.co
CLOSING DATE : 25 May 2026
NOTE : Shortlisted candidates will be required to attend interviews on a date and time
determined by the department and submit documentation for verification
purposes and criminal record vetting. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The selection
process will be guided by the EE targets of the employing department. By
applying for this position, you are consenting to the Western Cape Government
contacting your previous employers/managers for an employment reference.
Reference checks will include enquiries relating to your disciplinary records
and reasons for leaving. Should you experience difficulties with your online
application, technical support is available from Monday to Friday from 08:00 to
16.00. Contact the helpline at 086 137 0214. For all other queries relating to
the position, kindly contact the enquiries person as indicated in the advert.
Please ensure that you submit your application before the closing date as no
late applications will be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 15/218 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER POLICY ALIGNMENT REF NO: DSD
20/2026
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Formal 4-year degree/diploma in social work; registration and proof of current
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP); valid Code B driving license. Competencies: Knowledge of the
following: analytic and diagnostic tools, assessment tools, evaluation methods,
and processes (social work); people management; supervision framework for
the social work profession; social welfare and community development
legislation related to programs; social welfare and community development
theory and interventions; information and knowledge management; protocol
and professional ethics. Skills: Organising and planning, project planning,
networking, Psychosocial intervention; Communication and language (2
Official languages of the Western Cape Government); People management
practices; Conflict management; Interpersonal: Ability to compile complex
153
reports (report writing); Computer literacy, presentation, and facilitation.
Problem-solving and analytical Client orientation and customer focus;
Professional counselling, policy analysis and development, financial
management, and monitoring and evaluation skills.
DUTIES : Analyse and review existing social welfare and community development
policies to ensure the alignment of policies within the department: Monitor,
interpret, and review legislation, policies, and procedures to determine whether
the legislation, policies, and procedures are still relevant and comply with
current requirements. Facilitate the policy communication process; enable the
implementation of transversal social welfare and community development
policies and legislation through the establishment of operational guidelines and
capacity building; and liaise with and attend meetings with other departments,
non-government institutions, and relevant stakeholders to take cognizance of
the latest developments in the relevant fields: Facilitate the legislative process
of primary and secondary statutory policy
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Nieftagodien at email: Sihaam.Nieftagodien@westerncape.gov.za
POST 15/219 : SOCIAL WORK POLICY MANAGER: OLDER PERSONS REF NO: DSD
21/2026
SALARY : R1 009 512 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package), (OSD as prescribed).
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Formal 4-year degree/diploma in social work; registration and proof of current
registration with the South African Council for Social Service Professions
(SACSSP); 10 years of appropriate/recognizable experience in social work
after registration, of which 5 years are experience in social work policy
development (has this been left out intentionally); valid Code B driving license.
Competencies: Knowledge of the following: analytic and diagnostic tools,
assessment tools, evaluation methods, and processes (social work); people
management; supervision framework for the social work profession; social
welfare and community development legislation related to programs; social
welfare and community development theory and interventions; information and
knowledge management; protocol and professional ethics. Skills: Organising
and planning, project planning, networking, Psychosocial intervention;
Communication and language (2 Official languages of the Western Cape
Government); People management practices; Conflict management;
Interpersonal: Ability to compile complex reports (report writing); computer
literacy, presentation, and facilitation. Problem-solving and analytical client
orientation and customer focus; professional counselling, policy analysis and
development, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation skills.
DUTIES : Uniform Funding Cycle (UFC) Process: Monitor and evaluate NPOs'
compliance against signed Transfer Agreement (TPA) and compliance against
legislative programs. Specific norms and standards/regulatory frameworks;
Rapid following complaints/enquiries about NPOs, or a concern raised by a
programme, region, executive authority or head department; Registration
facilities in terms of the legislation; Monitoring program-specific services per
relevant legislation; Stakeholder management (international, national,
provincial, local and regional)
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Momoza at Patiswa.Momoza@westerncape.gov.za
POST 15/220 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR: SWELLENDAM REF NO: DSD 23/2026
SALARY : R496 668 - R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : A 4-year tertiary qualification in Social Work (Degree/Diploma); Registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP), A
minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in social work after registration as
Social Worker with the SACSSP. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Job related knowledge; Analytic, diagnostic, assessment tools, evaluation
methods and processes; Personnel Management; Supervision Framework for
Social Workers; Social Work legislation related to children; Social work theory
and interventions; Information and Knowledge Management; Protocol and
professional ethics Job Related Skills: Organizing and planning; Project
planning; Psycho social intervention; Communication and language (2 official
languages of the Western Cape Government); People management practices;
Interpersonal; Report-writing; Computer literacy; Presentation and facilitation;
Problem solving and analytical; Client orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : To ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities
154
through the relevant programmes is rendered: Attend to any other matters that
could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Supervise employees
engaged in these functions; This would include the following actions: Conduct
assessments, that are problematic for supervisees, aimed at identifying
conditions in individuals, groups, families and communities that justify relevant
interventions; Ensure that the appropriate recommendations and interventions
required to address the conditions are identified; Ensure the development and
planning of programmes to render the recommended interventions efficiently,
effectively and economically; Ensure that the recommended interventions are
implemented by supervisees by providing continuous support, counselling,
guidance and advice to supervisees; Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of
the recommended interventions; Ensure reporting on progress and identify
further/amended interventions to address the identified conditions; Study,
interpret, apply and give guidance on legislation and policies in the identified
work fields to supervisees and other role players/stakeholders; Perform
statutory functions that are problematic for supervisees relating to the relevant
function, compile court reports and attend to court enquiries and the other tasks
emanating from these matters; Ensure that records of social work
interventions, processes and outcomes are produced and maintained; Ensure
implementation and compliance to all standard operating procedures and
sector norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Van Reenen Tel No: (021) 483 3996
POST 15/221 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR REF NO: DSD 24/2026 (X3 POSTS
AVAILABLE IN VARIOUS LOCATIONS)
SALARY : R496 668 - R583 833 per annum, (OSD as prescribed)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : A 4-year tertiary qualification in Social Work (Degree/Diploma); Registration
with the South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP), A
minimum of 7 years appropriate experience in social work after registration as
Social Worker with the SACSSP. Competencies: Knowledge of the following:
Job-related knowledge; analytic and diagnostic tools, assessment tools,
evaluation methods, and processes. Personnel Management, Supervision
Framework for Social Workers, and Social Work Legislation Related to
Children. Social work theory and interventions; Information and knowledge
management, protocol, and professional ethics Job-Related Skills: Organizing
and planning; project planning; psychosocial intervention; communication and
language (2 official languages of the Western Cape Government); People
management practices; interpersonal, report writing, computer literacy,
presentation and facilitation, problem solving and analytical, and client
orientation and customer focus.
DUTIES : To ensure that a social work service with regard to the care, support, protection,
and development of vulnerable individuals, groups, families, and communities
through the relevant programs is rendered. Attend to any other matters that
could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form. Supervise employees
engaged in these functions. This would include the following actions: Conduct
assessments that are problematic for supervisees, aimed at identifying
conditions in individuals, groups, families, and communities that justify relevant
intervention. Ensure that the appropriate recommendations and interventions
required to address the conditions are identified; Ensure the development and
planning of programs to render the recommended interventions efficiently,
effectively, and economically. Ensure that the recommended interventions are
implemented by supervisees by providing continuous support, counselling,
guidance, and advice to supervisees. Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness
of the recommended interventions; Ensure reporting on progress and identify
further/amended interventions to address the identified conditions; Study,
interpret, apply, and give guidance on legislation and policies in the identified
work fields to supervisors and other role players/stakeholders. Perform
statutory functions that are problematic for supervisees relating to the relevant
function, compile court reports, and attend to court inquiries and the other tasks
emanating from these matters. Ensure that records of social work
interventions, processes, and outcomes are produced and maintained. Ensure
implementation and compliance with all standard operating procedures and
sector norms and standards.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Swarts Tel No: (021) 763 6212
155
POST 15/222 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: LOGISTICS SERVICES REF NO:
DSD 19/2026
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification). Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Basic knowledge of supply chain duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics;
Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service; Basic knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working
environment). Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Communication skills (written and verbal); Planning and organising;
Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Render a logistical support service: Place orders for goods; Receive and verify
goods from suppliers; Capture goods in registers databases; Receive request
for goods from end users; Issue goods to end users; Maintain goods register;
Update and maintain register and suppliers. Render demand and acquisition
clerical support: Update and maintain a supplier (including contractors)
database; Register suppliers on LOGIS or similar system; Request and receive
quotations; Capture specification on the electronic purchasing system; Place
orders; Issue and receive bid documents; Provide secretariat or logistical
support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion process;
Compile draft documents as required. Maintain records and information
management in: Control the safekeeping of records and information within the
division, in compliance with records management prescripts; Adhere to the
implementation of a sub directorate operations management system for
knowledge management and organisational learning in the sub directorate;
Provide input into the directorate's information management systems and
databases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Moodie at (066) 413 5970
POST 15/223 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT CLERK: QUOTATION ADMINISTRATION
REF NO: DSD 25/2026 (X2 POSTS AVAILABLE IN CAPE TOWN)
SALARY : R237 453 - R279 708 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification).Competencies:
Knowledge of the following: Basic knowledge of supply chain duties, practices
as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics;
Basic knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework governing the
Public Service; Basic knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working
environment). Skills needed: Computer literacy in MS Office Package (Word,
Excel, PowerPoint); Ability to work independently and as part of a team;
Communication skills (written and verbal); Planning and organising;
Interpersonal relations.
DUTIES : Render demand and acquisition clerical support: Update and maintain a
supplier (including contractors) database; Register suppliers on LOGIS or
similar system; Request and receive quotations; Capture specification on the
electronic purchasing system; Place orders; Issue and receive bid documents;
Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts conclusion process; Compile draft documents as required. Render a
logistical support service: Place orders for goods; Receive and verify goods
from suppliers; Capture goods in registers databases; Receive request for
goods from end users; Issue goods to end users; Maintain goods register;
Update and maintain register and suppliers. Maintain records and information
management in: Control the safekeeping of records and information within the
division, in compliance with records management prescripts; Adhere to the
implementation of a sub directorate operations management system for
knowledge management and organisational learning in the sub directorate;
Provide input into the directorate’s information management systems and
databases.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Moodie at (066) 413 5970
POST 15/224 : SOCIAL AUXILIARY WORKER: SOCIAL WORK SERVICES REF NO: DSD
22/2026 (X6 POSTS AVAILABLE IN VARIOUS LOCATIONS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R200 691 – R227 145 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
Grade 2: R236 385 – R269742 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
156
Grade 3: R280 809 - R353 016 per annum, (as prescribed by OSD)
CENTRE : Department of Social Development, Western Cape Government
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Grade 12; Registration and proof of current registration with the South
African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP) as Social Auxiliary
Worker; Valid Driver’s License B. Competencies: Knowledge and basic
understanding of the following: Human behaviour, relationship system and
social issues; South African social welfare context: the policy and practice of
developmental social welfare services; South African judicial system and the
legislation governing and impacting of social auxiliary work; Basic knowledge
of financial matters related to social auxiliary work; Uses appropriate resources
in service delivery to client systems; Implement appropriate social auxiliary
work methods and techniques to address the social needs of client systems;
Information and Knowledge Management (Keep precise records and compile
accurate reports on social needs and social auxiliary work activities and file
them appropriately; Protocol and professional ethics.
DUTIES : Provide assistance and support to social workers with the rendering of a social
work service with regard to the care, support, protection and development of
vulnerable individuals, groups, families and communities through the relevant
departmental programmes; Assist social workers to attend to any other matters
that could result in, or stem from, social instability in any form; Continuous
professional development; Perform administrative support functions in support
of social workers as required of the job.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Rebe Tel No: (021) 812 0923
157