PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 12 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 10 APRIL 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the
advertisements of vacant posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the
Department is not responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an
advertisement must be addressed to the relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies,
knowledge and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the
department in which the vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST
PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries
to the department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration
must not be approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the
applicable closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies.
Potential candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies
and attending where applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15
(affirmative action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998
should be applied. Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote
representativeness through the filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose
transfer/appointment will promote representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to
employment in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding
the course please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENTS : NATIONAL DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONAL SERVICES: Kindly note the
following amendments were made in the Public Service Vacancy Circular 10
dated 20 March 2026: (1) The following posts have been Withdrawn from the
advertisement: Assistant Director: Hr Utilization, Eastern Cape region: Mthatha
1
(Ref: EC 2026/03/29). Assistant Director: Employment Equity, Eastern Cape
region: Regional Office (Ref: EC 2026/03/27) and Western Cape region:
Regional Office (Ref: WC 2026/03/52). Security Manager: Agriculture (CB4),
Eastern Cape region: Amathole (Ref: EC 2026/03/105). Security Manager:
Nutritional Services (CB4), Gauteng region: Johannesburg (Ref: GP
2026/03/215). Social Worker Grade 1, Gauteng region: Baviaanspoort Max
(Ref: GP 2026/03/96). Secretary, Gauteng region: Regional Office: Office of
the Regional Head: Development and Care (Ref: GP 2026/03/192). Secretary,
KwaZulu Natal region: Regional Office: Office of the Regional Head:
Development and Care (Ref: KZN 2026/03/90). Senior Correctional Officer:
Correctional Administration (NCB2), Western Cape region: Regional Office
(Ref: WC 2026/03/239) (1 Post). Employee Assistance Practitioner (Eap):
Special Programs, Western Cape region: Voorberg (Ref: WC 2026/03/88).
Professional Nurse Grade 1 (General Nursing) (PN-A2), Western Cape region:
Voorberg Med A (Ref: WC 2026/03/152). Senior Logistic Clerk: Logistics,
Limpopo, Mpumalanga and Northwest region: Bethal (Ref: LMN 2026/03/124).
Clinical Nurse Practitioner Grade 1: Pn-B1 [Primary Health Care], Limpopo,
Mpumalanga and Northwest region: Witbank: Middleburg (Ref: LMN
2026/03/35). Deputy Director: Facilities And Security (NCB4), KwaZulu Natal
region: Durban Corrections (Ref: KZN 2026/03/103) and Western Cape region:
Pollsmoor (Ref: WC 2026/03/199). Assistant Director: Facilities And Security
[NCB3], Eastern Cape region: East London (Ref EC 2026/03/104); Free State
and Northern Cape region: Upington (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/155); Gauteng
region: Modderbee (Ref: GP 2026/03/214); KwaZulu Natal region: Ncome (Ref:
KZN 2026/03/105), Waterval (Ref: KZN 2026/03/106); Limpopo, Mpumalanga
and North West region: Polokwane (Ref: LMN 2026/03/165), Rustenburg (Ref:
LMN 2026/03/166), Witbank (Ref: LMN 2026/03/167), Rooigrond (Ref: LMN
2026/03/168); Western Cape region: Brandvlei (Ref: WC 2026/03/211),
Goodwood (Ref: WC 2026/03/212), West Coast (Ref: WC 2026/03/213) and
Overberg (Ref: WC 2026/03/214). System Controller (Logis): Supply Chain,
Free State and Northern Cape region: Regional Office (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/81)
and Gauteng region: Regional Office (Ref: GP 2026/03/71). Skills
Development Educationist (M+4) AET, Free State and Northern Cape region:
Kuruman (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/185). Unit Manager (CB4), Free State and
Northern Cape region: Goedemoed Max (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/163) (2 Posts).
Divisional Head: Care Services (CB4), Free State and Northern Cape region:
Vereeniging (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/174). Divisional Head: Human Resource
Management (CB4), Free State and Northern Cape region: Goedemoed Med
B (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/169) and Vereeniging (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/171). Centre
Coordinator: Staff Support (CB4), Free State and Northern Cape region:
Groenpunt Med (Ref: FSNC 2026/03/162). Assistant Director: Administrative
Secretary, Free State and Northern Cape region: Regional Office: Office of the
Deputy Regional Commissioner (Ref: FS/NC 2026/03/49). Centre Coordinator:
Staff SupporT (CB5), Free State and Northern Cape region: Kimberley (Ref:
FSNC 2026/03/147).
DEPARTMENOF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE: Kindly note
that the following positions were advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular
10 dated 20 March 2026 closing on 10 April 2026, (1) Senior Administrative
Officer: Property, ref no: 2026/140E (posts), centre: Kimberly regional office
Kindly take note that the above position has been withdrawn. Public Service
Vacancy Circular 08 dated 06 March 2026 closing on 20 March 2026. (1)
Groundsman, Ref no: 2026/111, centre: Pretoria regional offices, the post is
withdrawn.
2
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 04 - 17
COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE B 18 - 19
DEFENCE C 20 - 30
ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY D 31 - 34
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR E 35 - 37
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT F 38 - 39
GOVERNMENT PENSION ADMINISTRATION AGENCY G 40 - 49
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING H 50 - 57
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT I 58 - 62
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE J 63 - 65
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT K 66 - 67
TOURISM L 68 - 71
WATER AND SANITATION M 72 - 80
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITY N 81 - 84
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
FREE STATE O 85 - 86
GAUTENG P 87 - 93
KWAZULU-NATAL Q 94 - 100
MPUMALANGA R 101 - 121
NORTHERN CAPE S 122 - 125
WESTERN CAPE T 126 - 163
3
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview, the selection
committee will recommend candidates for a generic management competency
assessment, as per the Department of public Service and Administration
(DPSA) directives. The assessment will evaluate candidates’ managerial
competencies using standardised tools. NB: Please note that false or
fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will be reported to the South
African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case shall be opened.
Applications: Please submit your application before the closing date as late
applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate applications. If
applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for each post. Due to
high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt of applications.
Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: Please note that all vacancies advertised by the Department of
Agriculture in the Public Service Vacancy Circular number 11 of 2026 with the
closing date of 14 April 2025, the correct closing date is 14 April 2026.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EPIDEMIOLOGY REF NO: 3/3/1/01/2026
Directorate: Animal Health
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12) (All-inclusive package to be structure in
accordance with the Middle Management (MMS) rules)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
4
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a Bachelor’s
degree of Veterinary Science (BVSc) (NQF 7). Registration with the South
African Veterinary Council. Job Related Work Experience: Minimum of five (5)
technical experience in the government Veterinary Services environment on a
State Veterinary level. Some experience with laboratory services, disease
research and the implementation of brucellosis and tuberculosis control
scheme in provincial veterinary service is an advantage. Experience in the field
of epidemiology. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge of
Public Service Regulation. International agreements, treaties, conventions and
bilateral agreements relating to animal improvement. Relevant animal
production legislation, strategies and norms and standards. Export and import
programmes and their requirements. Planning and organising. HR matters.
Soud knowledge of Animal Health legislation especially the Animal Diseases
Act, 1984 (Act 35 of 1984) and animal disease control with special emphasis
on state controlled and vector borne disease. Computer courses such as
courses in the use of Geographical Information systems (GIS) and ICDL
courses provided by SITA, etc. Training in veterinary epidemiology. Knowledge
of project management, monitoring and evaluation. Job Related Skills: Some
analytical and research skills and an aptitude for epidemiology. Ability to
communicate clearly, both verbally and written. Expert knowledge and
experience of Animal diseases and epidemiology with emphasis on controlled
animal diseases. Management and organizational skills. Ability to function
effectively under various types of pressure with professionalism and integrity.
Complex Problem-solving skills. Ability to think logically and adapt to change.
Ability to collect and interpret information and to arrive at a rational conclusion.
Ability to maintain good interpersonal relationships and work in a team.
Pronounced self-motivation to initiate new projects. Teamwork. Financial
management. Technical skills communication. Acceptance of responsibility.
Leadership. Reliability. Extended working hours. Travelling.
DUTIES : Disease reporting. Develop, analyse and verify policy, standards and
guidelines for animal disease reporting. Manage specific disease reporting to
international standards to OIE, SADC, AU-IBAR, trade partners and other role
-players. Manage the collecting, collating and verifying animal disease
outbreak information. Analyse and monitor epidemiological information
regarding animal diseases. Continuously develop and maintain the National
Animal Diseases Database. Disease surveillance. Develop, analyse and verify
policy standards and guidelines for disease surveillance. Design National
Surveillance programs from an epidemiological point of view. Coordinate and
oversee the conducting of disease surveillance programs. Analyse the
outcome of disease surveys from an epidemiological point of view. Report on
the outcome of surveillance programs nationally and internationally. General
epidemiological functions. Map animal disease occurrences. Monitor internal
animal disease information and analyse potential impact for South Africa.
Conduct epidemiological outbreak investigations in coordination with the
provincial Veterinary Services. Conduct a review and analysis of laboratory test
results of samples for controlled and notifiable animal diseases.
Representation and liaison on behalf of the Department on various for a and
with stakeholders (i.e. Department of Health, SADC Epidemiological and
informatics workgroup (EIS), Rabies Advisory Group (RAG), etc). Veterinary
laboratory quality systems. Develop, analyse and verify policy, standards and
guidelines for veterinary laboratory quality systems. Coordinate the provision
of animal disease diagnostic services to the country and payment of applicable
services by DoA. Ensure DoA approval of laboratories and diagnostic tests,
including BSL evaluation. Manage the resources of the Sub-directorate
(Physical, Human and Financial). Ensure proper utilization of the budget by
monitoring & reporting expenditure. Monitor and ensure proper utilization of
equipment. Evaluate and monitor performance and appraisal of employees.
Ensure capacity, development and discipline of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Dr B. Modisane Tel: (012) 319 6521
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DDErecruit01@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Females, and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
5
POST 12/02 : STATE VETERINARIAN REF NO: 3/3/1/02/2026
Directorate: Animal Health (Import and export control)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structure in
accordance with the Middle Management (MMS) rules)
CENTRE : Gauteng: (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and BVSc/BVMCH
Degree or equivalent Qualification recognized by South African Qualification
Authority and the South African Veterinary Council, Registration with the South
African Veterinary Council. Job Related Work Experience: Minimum of one (1)
year appropriate experience (post-qualification experience) in regulatory
veterinary services. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge
of Trade Organization, Including the SPS agreement. Animal Health legislation
especially the Animal Diseases Act, 1984 (Act 35 of 1984) and Meat Safety
Act, 2000 (Act 40 of 2000). Knowledge of international requirements and
guidelines of, e.g. World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH) and the World
Trade Organization, including the SPS agreement. Training in risk assessment
will be an advantage. Public Service Regulations. International agreements,
conventions and biliteral agreements relating phytosanitary, sanitary and food
quality matters. Relevant animal health legislation and regulations, norms and
standards. Export and import programmes and their requirements. Planning
and organising. The Constitution. Good governance and Batho Pele Principles.
Internal performance evaluation and reporting. Government decision making
processes. Diversity Management. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Public Service Regulations. Government systems and structure. Public
Finance Management Act. Job Related Skills: Ability to communicate well and
interact with people at different levels. Planning, Management and Organising.
Creativity. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving, Interpretation skills, Analytical
skills, Listening skills, Computer literacy and Report writing. Extended working
hours, Extensive travelling and driver’s license.
DUTIES : Conduct risk assessment, including dispensations and detained consignments.
Evaluation and risk management with regard to detained consignments (that
does not fully comply with all import requirements). Considering granting or
refusing dispensations (risk management). Evaluating information supplied by
exporting countries (to formal questionnaires and other information requested).
Risk assessment & management in the case of illegal imports. Risk
assessment, including risk management, on new commodities or applications
to import a commodity for the 1ST time from a country. Monitor international
animal disease information and analyse potential impact for South Africa. To
liaise with clients, stakeholders, including foreign veterinary authorities,
embassies, importers, exporters, agents, industry groups provincial veterinary
services, other directorates and sub directorates and other Departments.
Handle Telephonic enquiries. Respond to email enquiries. Liaise with officials
with the Department of Agriculture. Obtain Technical assistance from other sub
directorates where appropriate. Liaise with Provincial Veterinary Services,
other Department and Directorates and port of entry. Liaise and meet with
foreign veterinary services and embassies to discuss trade issues, including
foreign visits. Meetings with industry representatives, colleagues and clients to
discuss trade issues. Meetings attended and participation during meetings.
Inputs on monthly reports and briefing notes. Coordination of bilateral meetings
as required according to commodity. Develop and maintain import standards,
policy and procedures. Develop, analyse, review and verify policy, standards
and guidelines. Consult prior risk assessments done, SA legislation and/or
international standards and other information. Drafting and reviewing of
veterinary import permits (issued by SA), procedural and policy documents.
Amendment to current permits to ensure that permits are up to date and in line
with national and international developments. Develop, maintain and negotiate
veterinary health certificates (to be signed by certifying vet in exporting country
for imports. Approval and compliance of facilities for import. Place trade
restrictions on countries in the event of disease outbreaks. Draft submissions
to provide information on import procedures. Participate in providing inputs to
international standard setting bodies (e.g. WOAH). Assist in evaluating
responses to questionnaires from trade partners, where technical knowledge
regarding sanitary requirements for international trade applies. Evaluate
applications and assist with issuing veterinary import permits. Negotiate and
maintain export protocols, certificates and procedures. Request market access
and import requirements from foreign countries. Evaluate requirements to
6
determine if we can comply. Negotiate alternative certification with foreign
country if necessary. Draft export health certificates and sending these to
foreign country for approval. Complete or assist in completing questionnaires
from foreign countries where requested. Draft and finalise procedural
documents, protocols and/or policies for export. Draft submissions regarding
export matters. Approval and compliance of facilities for export.
ENQUIRIES : Dr B. Modisane Tel: (012) 319 6521
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SVIECrecruit02@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African, Coloured Males and African Females, and Persons with
disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/03 : STATE VETERINARIAN REF NO: 3/3/1/03/2026
Directorate: Animal Health (Epidemiology)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structure in
accordance with the Middle Management (MMS) rules)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and BVSc/BVMCH
Degree or relevant Qualification recognized by South African Qualification
Authority and the South African Veterinary Council, Registration with the South
African Veterinary Council. Job Related Work Experience: A minimum of one
(1) year appropriate experience (post-qualification experience) in regulatory
veterinary services. Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge
of Animal Health legislation especially the Animal Diseases Act, 1984 (Act 35
of 1984) and Meat Safety Act, 2000 (Act 40 of 2000). Knowledge of
international requirements and guidelines of, e.g. World Organization for
Animal Health (WOAH) and the World Trade Organization, including the SPS
agreement. Training in risk assessment will be an advantage, knowledge of
legislation applicable to finance & personnel management. Public Service
Regulations. International agreements, conventions and biliteral agreements
relating phytosanitary, sanitary and food quality matters. Relevant animal
health legislation and regulations, Export and import programmes and their
requirements. Planning and organising. The Constitution. Good governance
and Batho Pele Principles. Internal performance evaluation and reporting.
Government decision making processes. Diversity Management. Performance
Management and Monitoring. Public Service Regulations. Government
systems and structure. Public Finance Management Act. Job Related Skills:
Ability to communicate well and interact with people at different levels.
Planning, Management and Organising. Creativity. Interpersonal skills.
Problem solving, Interpretation skills, Analytical skills, Listening skills,
Computer literacy and Report writing. Extended working hours, Extensive
travelling and driver’s license.
DUTIES : Analyse disease data and provide epidemiological information: Collection,
capture and collation of disease outbreak data. Analysis of disease data.
Identification of prevalent animal diseases and changes in the epidemiology of
these diseases. Compile and distribute disease outbreak reports and risk
reports. Compile and provide inputs for policy development, norms and
standards for epidemiology and disease reporting. Generation of disease
reports and distribution to government and other stakeholders. Facilitate the
development of a practical Early Warning System for all relevant diseases
including disease modelling, simulation and scenario mappings. Contribute to
the development of emergency diseases control preparedness systems.
Conduct veterinary risk assessment. Establishment of norms and standards for
disease reporting and the national disease database: Plan, implement,
maintain and coordinate disease reporting. Update the list of controlled and
non-controlled diseases. Implement new procedures, techniques and/ or
equipment to ensure that an efficient and effective disease reporting service is
rendered. Design and implementation of national disease surveillance plans:
Design and implement national disease surveillance and other epidemiologic
studies. Collect, capture and collate surveillance data. Analyse surveillance
data. Generate reports on surveillance outcomes. Implement new procedures,
techniques and/ or equipment to ensure that an efficient and effective national
disease surveillance service is rendered. Liaison with and assistance given to
other Sub-Directorates, Province and industry bodies on epidemiology and
7
surveillance matters. Attend pre-authorization meetings of sample submissions
for payment (of certain test by DoA) and section 20 matters. Assist the province
with epidemiology matters and enquiries relating thereto. Liaise with industry
(NAHF and others) on epidemiological matters, including attending meetings
and providing relevant information. Assist colleagues from other sub-
directorates with their enquiries regarding epidemiology and surveillance.
Perform administrative and related functions which would include, inter, alia,
the following: Assist with compiling reports. Handle relevant telephonic
enquiries. Handle relevant written enquiries.
ENQUIRIES : Dr B. Modisane Tel: (012) 319 6521
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SVErecruit03@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African, Coloured Males and African Females, and Persons with
disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/04 : STATE VETERINARIAN REF NO: 3/3/1/042026 (2 POSTS)
Directorate: Animal Health (Disease Control)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structure in
accordance with the Middle Management (MMS) rules)
CENTRE : Gauteng: (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and BVSc/BVMCH
Degree or equivalent Qualification recognized by South African Qualification
Authority and the South African Veterinary Council, Registration with the South
African Veterinary Council. Valid driver’s license. Job Related Work
Experience: A minimum of one (1) year appropriate experience (post-
qualification experience) in regulatory veterinary services. Job Related
Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
International agreements, conventions and biliteral agreements relating
phytosanitary, sanitary and food quality matters. Relevant animal health
legislation and regulations, norms and standards. Export and import
programmes and their requirements. Planning and organising. The
Constitution. Good governance and Batho Pele Principles. Internal
performance evaluation and reporting. Government decision making
processes. Diversity Management. Performance Management and Monitoring.
Public Service Regulations. Government systems and structure. Public
Finance Management Act. Job Related Skills: Ability to communicate well and
interact with people at different levels. Planning, Management and Organising.
Creativity. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving, Interpretation skills, Analytical
skills, Listening skills, Computer literacy and Report writing. Extended working
hours, Occasional travelling and driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance with the animal Disease Act, 1984 (Act No 35 of 1984) and
Animal Disease Regulations (R. 2026 of 1986). Monitor and audit compliance
to Act and Regulations. Follow up cases of non-compliance. Advise on the
implementation of Act and Regulations. Provide inputs on strategies to align
with legislation. Form part of section 20 evaluation team - section 20
applications and amendments are evaluated and discussed within the
directorate. Establish norms and standards for the prevention and control of
animal diseases. Draft diseases control policies, protocols and contingency
plans. Revise, update and amend current policies, protocols and contingency
plans. Facilitate circulation/publishing of new or amended documents for
comment. Collate inputs provided on drafted documents. Provide inputs on
disease control policies, protocols and contingency plan as requested. Prepare
final policies, protocols and contingency plans for signature. Ensure circulation
of final documents for relevant role players. Liaison with and assistance given
to other Sub-Directorates, Provinces and industry bodies on disease control
matters. Attend daily pre-authorization of sample submissions for payments (of
certain tests by DoA). Assist the provinces with disease control matters and
enquiries relating thereto. Liaise with industry on disease control matters:
including attending meetings and providing guidelines for enquiries. Assist
colleagues from other sub-directorates with the enquiries regarding disease
control matters. Liaise with D: FIES to develop information pamphlets, posters
and articles related to Animal Diseases. Assist with Office Management and
administration. Assist with compiling reports. Handle relevant telephonic
enquiries. Handle relevant written enquiries.
8
ENQUIRIES : Dr B. Modisane Tel: (012) 319 6521
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SVDCrecruit04@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African, Coloured Males and African Females, and Persons with
disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/05 : STATE VETERINARIAN: REF NO. 3/3/1/05/2026
Directorate: Veterinary Public Health
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (All-inclusive package to be structure in
accordance with the Middle Management (MMS) rules)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Successful applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate and a
Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc / BVMCh). Registration with the South
African Veterinary Council as a veterinarian. Job Related Work Experience:
Minimum of one (1) year of experience as a state veterinarian or compulsory
community service veterinarian in a regulatory state veterinary area in South
Africa. Experience in monitoring abattoirs, processing plants and/or cold stores
registered under the Meat Safety Act. Job Related Knowledge: Practical
working knowledge and experience in application of Meat Safety Act, 2000 (Act
No. 40 of 2000). Applications of the Animal Diseases Act, 1984 (Act No.35 of
1984). Knowledge and practical experience of import and export facilitation.
Knowledge of relevant Codex, WOAH, FAO and other international standards
and guidelines related to food of animal origin. Knowledge of principles of
chemical residues monitoring. Job Related Skills: Analytical skills. Research
skills. Ability to communicate clearly, both verbally and written. Administration
and organizational skills. Ability to function effectively under various types of
pressure, with professionalism and integrity. Complex-problem solving skills.
Ability to think logically and adapt to change. Ability to maintain good
interpersonal relationships and work in a team. Other: Extended working hours.
Valid drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Develop, implement or monitor policies, standards, guidelines and
programmes for the safe production of meat and other animal products.
Develop and formulate policies, norms, standards and legislation for the
production of animals and animal products. Implement and enforce the relevant
Acts and accompanying regulations. Audit the implementation of applicable
legislation and standards. Monitor implementation of the Meat Safety Act at
abattoirs, cutting and processing plants, hides and skins and sterilization
plants. Execute law enforcement in accordance with the Act. Draft and
implement national microbiological monitoring and control policies. Develop
and coordinate awareness programmes related to relevant policies standards.
Contribute to an efficient and comprehensive risk analysis service in relation to
the local production of meat from animals and other animal products for human
and animal consumption. Identify and investigate risk factors that pose a threat
to the health of humans or animals in South Africa in relation to local production
of meat and animal products. Identify possible measures to mitigate identified
risk factors. Develop and facilitate specific surveillance programmes and
contingency plans. Assist with conducting relevant line function risk
assessments relating to animals and animal products. Facilitation of imports
and exports of animals and animal products. Manage and coordinate the
importation of animals and animal products according to the provisions of the
Meat Safety Act and related legislations. Draft, evaluate and complete import
and export questionnaires. Auditing and registration of veterinary approved
import/export facilities. Process queries and appeals from stakeholders.
Coordinate the National Food Safety Programmes (National Residues
Monitoring and Control Programmes, National Microbiological Monitoring
Programme, National Parasitology Monitoring Programme) Draft and
implement programmes for all commodities of interest. Conduct risk analysis
on substances and compounds of interest. Collation and analysis of results
based on risk analysis conducted. Manage the transportation, reception,
sorting and storage of all samples. Ensure that establishments that take part in
the programme have a sufficient supply of sampling equipment and packaging
materials. Analysis and responding to reports. Coordinate the One Health
portfolio. Draft policies related to one health. Draft necessary policies on
combating antimicrobial usage and antimicrobial resistance surveillance plans
9
for animals and animal products. Draft and implement awareness plans for one
health, antimicrobial resistance and judicious use of antimicrobials. Participate
in activities related to one health and AMR, both internally and externally.
Conduct risk analysis in relation to the production of meat and other animal
products for human and animal consumption. Identify and investigate risk
factors that pose a threat to the health of humans and/or animals in South
Africa in relation to production of meat and animal products. Identify all possible
means to mitigate identified risk factors. Develop and facilitate specific
surveillance programmes and contingency plans. Assist with conducting
certain relevant line function risk assessments relating to animals and animal
products. Draft, evaluate and submit import and export facilitation
questionnaires. Perform administrative and related functions. Provide inputs
for the Operational Plan of the veterinary unit. Comply with the Public Service
prescripts. Comply with Financial Management prescripts. Contribute to the
maintenance of databases. Compile and submit reports as required. Supervise
and manage performance of relevant staff.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Mphane Molefe Tel: 012 319 7688
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SVVPHrecruit05@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Females, and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/06 : SENIOR AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST REF NO: 3/3/1/06/2026
Directorate: Marketing
SALARY : R582 444 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a Bachelor’s
degree in Agricultural Economics (NQF 7) or A 3-year bachelor’s degree plus
Honors degree in Agricultural Economics. Job Related Work Experience:
Minimum of three (3) years ’supervisor experience in agricultural economist
environment. Job Related Knowledge: Practical knowledge and understanding
of the Agricultural Marketing Strategy for the Republic of South Africa.
Knowledge of agricultural marketing related legislation. Knowledge of
agricultural marketing, agricultural marketing capacity building and marketing
information systems. Job Related Skills: Ability to work independently, with
minimal supervision, and under pressure. Planning and organizing skills.
Communication/presentation skills. Writing skills and Innovative. Valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Manage projects related to development, implementation, and evaluation of
Agricultural Marketing Capacity programme. Conduct research on the
agricultural marketing capacity building needs for smallholder producers.
Contribute to implement of relevant pillars of the Agricultural Marketing
Strategy for the Republic of South Africa. Conduct surveys for collection of data
from producers, collaboration with various stakeholder such as commodity
associations and farmer support officials at the provincial and local level.
Develop agricultural marketing needs assessment reports and provide advice
to the department regarding the status of agricultural marketing capacity
development in the country. Conduct agricultural marketing needs
assessments and develop agricultural marketing capacity building manuals.
Undertake capacity needs assessment among smallholder producers in
collaboration with Commodity Associations, Provincial Departments of
Agriculture and other stakeholders. Identify suitably capacity development
programmes in the sector to address the needs and/or facilitate development
of demand-driven agricultural marketing capacity development programme.
Development of marketing capacity building manuals in line with the agreed
standard. Facilitate editing, design, layout and production of the manuals.
Implement agricultural marketing capacity building programme among
smallholder producers and other interested stakeholders. Organise and
facilitate Agricultural Marketing Capacity Building workshops based on the
identified needs. Identify beneficiaries of the Marketing Capacity Building
Programme in collaboration with provincial departments, commodity
associations and other role players. Develop training schedule in collaboration
with provincial departments, commodity associations and other role players.
Create and update database of producers who completed the agricultural
marketing capacity building programme. Make contributions to agricultural
10
marketing webinars, information sessions, and other relevant events.
Management of stakeholders to ensure successful and collaborative
implementation of the capacity building programme. Evaluate agricultural
marketing building programme and develop progress reports on the
implementation of Capacity Building Program. Conduct post-workshop
evaluations. Conduct qualitative and quantitative analysis of the workshops
undertaken. Develop regular reports on agricultural marketing building and
resent the findings to management and other forums. Management of records
related to the capacity building programme.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Sitembele Kelembe Tel: (012) 319 8455
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SAEreruit06@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Coloured Females, and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/07 : CHIEF AGRICULTURAL FOOD AND QUARANTINE TECHNICIAN REF NO.
3/3/1/07/2026 (3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Inspection and Quarantine Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Stellenbosch
REQUIREMENTS : Successful Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a
Minimum of National Diploma in Agriculture (NQF 6). Job Related Work
Experience: Minimum of three (3) years relevant experience. Job Related
Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge of Public Service Regulations.
International Agreements, Conventions and Bilateral Agreements relating to
phytosanitary, sanitary and food quality matters. Relevant legislation and
regulations, norms and standards. Export and import programmes and their
requirements. Job Related Skills: Ability to communicate well and interact with
people at different levels. Planning and Organising skills. Technical skills. Law
enforcement. Interpersonal skills. Problem solving and decision-making skills.
Analytical skills. Negotiation skills. Listening skills. Computer literacy. Report
writing. Customer focus and responsiveness. Communication and Information
Management. Project Management. Networking and building bonds. Applied
Strategic thinking. Budgeting and Financial Management. Developing others.
Impact and Influence. Diversity Management. Valid driver’s license and the
ability to drive. Work extended working hours. Travelling. Relief duties.
DUTIES : Application and enforcement of legislation and international agreements.
Conduct inspections and make recommendations in terms of the relevant
prescripts and take appropriate actions. Conduct searches of passengers,
motor vehicles, etc with regards to illegal imports of regulated agricultural
products by the appropriate means, i.e. physical inspections, sniffer dogs or X-
ray machines. Prohibition of the sale of imported and locally produced
agricultural products that do not comply with the relevant legislative prescripts.
Seize and confiscate non-compliant agricultural products. Handle
consignments destined for export that do not comply with the requirements of
international agreements or rejected by the Assignees. Provide advisory
services to stakeholders. Liaise with and provide advice to stakeholders (e.g.
trade organizations, industries, private sector institutions, importers/exporters,
legal representatives, assignees, etc) regarding the operational application of
relevant Acts, prescripts, certification schemes, norms and standards.
Supervision of staff. Allocate and ensure quality of work. Ensure capacity and
development of staff. Ensure capacity and development of staff. Ensure proper
utilisation of equipment. Assess staff performance. Apply discipline.
ENQUIRIES : A G Tsako Tel: 021 809 1641
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
CAFQTrecruit07@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Females, and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : April 2026 at 16H00
POST 12/08 : ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT FACILITATOR REF NO. 3/3/1/08/2026
Directorate: Cooperatives
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : National Office
11
REQUIREMENTS : Successful Applicants must be in possession of a Degree in Agricultural
Economics/ Economics/ Business Management/ Development studies. Job
Related Work Experience: Minimum of two (2) years’ experience in Business
Development/ Enterprise Development. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge
of BBBEE Act and related legislation, National Small Business Amendment Act,
Companies Act, Cooperatives Act, PFMA, Bathopele Principles. Job Related
Skills: High level of integrity. Strong leadership and Analytical skills. Strong
work ethics. Good interpersonal skills. Negotiation skills. Ability to work
independently. Ability to work under pressure. Leadership, planning and
execution. Acceptance of responsibility. Extensive travel. Work extended
hours. Drivers’ license.
DUTIES : Link SMMEs and entrepreneurs in the sector for funding and / or other
development opportunities. Receive and assess enquiries received from
departmental clients and/ or stakeholder. Identify interventions available in the
market for use by entrepreneurs and SMMEs in the sector. Liaise with
institutions of interest for possible interventions and/ or opportunities
necessary. Link entrepreneurs and SMMEs to institutions of interest for
possible interventions. Conduct follow-up with clients on interventions
received. Provide inputs on the monthly, quarterly, and annual reports on
support provided to sector SMMEs. Update the register of interventions
identified on possible funding mechanisms and other development
opportunities for SMMEs on an ongoing basis. Assess AgriBEE Fund
proposals. Receive allocated applications for assessment against funding
criteria. Create hard and soft copy files on applications received. Analyse
applications/ proposals received and compile assessment reports. Present the
assessment reports to internal structures. Conduct site visit to potential
applicants. Draft back to office reports. Present the assessment report at
AgriBEE Fund Committee meetings. Provide inputs on the minutes of the
committee meetings. Package and create files for recommended applications
/ proposals to be submitted to the Land Bank for due diligence assessments.
Draft outcome letters to the relevant stakeholders and applicants. Liaise /
attend meetings with PDAs, Commodity Associations and relevant
stakeholders for information sharing purposes (i.e. Workshops, a Fora’s etc.)
and for publishing AgriBEE Fund Information on their websites. Keep constant
contact with applicants and relevant stakeholders regarding funding
processes. Support the processes towards review of AgriBEE Fund MoA and
Ops Manual as and when necessary. Update AgriBEE Fund documents as and
when necessary. Compile monthly quarterly reports. Provide support in the
Implementation sector SMMEs strategy and support interventions. Undertake
research processes on the relevant subject matters related to the strategy.
Facilitate workshops with provinces and relevant stakeholders for consultation
processes and information sharing. Provide advice and support on the
intervention processes and access thereof. Monitor and evaluate SMMEs
performance and intervention impact. Liaise with provincial counter parts and
follow up on SMMEs progress. Monitor partnership interventions and report on
outcomes. Evaluate training outcomes as well as the implementation of action
plans. Follow up with funded projects performance and report on status.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sibusisiwe Matanda Tel: 012 319 8143
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
EDFrecruit08@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Females and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/09 : BBBEE OFFICER REF NO: 3/3/1/09/2026
Directorate: BBBEE Charters Compliance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and a Degree in
Economics and Management Science/Agricultural Economics. Minimum of two
(2) years’ experience at business advisory level position in BBBEE
environment. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of B-BBEE Act. B-BBEE
Code of good practice. AgriBEE Sector Code. B-BBEE Verification Framework
and Methodologies. Job Related Skills: Policy development and analysis.
Monitoring and research skills. Negotiation skills. Excellent communication
skills (verbal, presenting and report writing). Knowledge of project planning,
12
coordinating and management. Problem solving and analysis. Facilitation and
coordination skills. Computer skills. Time management skills. Data analysis
and presentation skills. Extended working hours. Travelling. A valid driver’s
license.
DUTIES : Develop draft legislation, policies, guidelines norms and sustainable with
regard to BEE in the sector. Provide inputs into the development of draft
legislation and policies with regard to BEE for the sector. Conduct public
consultation workshops with provincial stakeholder during the drafting phase
of legislation. Consolidate comments and inputs for public consultation phase
into the management report. Facilitate the implementation of strategies,
framework and guidelines. Distribute finalised legislation to stakeholder of the
sector. Assist the management in the review of legislation and policies with
regard to BEE for the sector. Monitor the implementation of BEE in the sector
and develop AgriBEE Sector Code Undertaking Report annually. Organise
information sharing sessions with external stakeholder with regard to BEE
verification frameworks. Conduct site visits to the Provincial departments of
Agriculture. Conduct analysis and compile progress reports on the
implementation of the government undertakings for Agriculture Sector. Develop
monitoring instrument/ template for the implementation of BBBEE in Agriculture
Sectors. Provide secretarial support services to AgriBEE Charter Council and
working Groups, and the AgriBEE Provincial Representatives Forum (compile
agendas and minutes of meetings; responses for queries, technical work
documents). Plan and organise council and working groups meeting. Compile
set of minutes. Keep registry of all council documentations. Provide support to
management of the appointment of council members for the new term of office.
Render subject-related technical and general administration support and
conduct research as identified by management and maintain information
management database for reporting (contribute inputs to the industry
transformation plans, the alignment of industries’ strategies to AgriBEE Sector
Codes, undertake visits and engage BBBEE stakeholders and prepare back-
to -office reports, etc.). Arrange meetings, venues, accommodation and travel
arrangements. Draft submissions and memos. Coordinate and follow up
reports. Record keeping and documents management. Collect, administer and
analyse information relating to BBBEE. Administer the AgriBEE IT portal.
Maintain the database.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Rudolph Abercrombie, Tel: (012) 319 8145.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
BBBEEOrecruit09@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Females and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/10 : AGRICULTURAL FOOD AND QUARANTINE TECHNICIAN REF NO:
3/3/1/10/2026
Chief Directorate: Inspection and Quarantine Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Stellenbosch
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and National
Diploma in Agriculture (NQF6). Minimum of one (1) year relevant experience.
Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations.
International agreements, conventions and bilateral agreements relating to
Phytosanitary, Sanitary and food quality matters. Relevant legislation and
regulations, norms and standards. Export and import programmes and their
requirements. Job Related Skills: Ability to communicate well and interact with
people at different levels. Planning and organising skills. Problem solving. Law
enforcement skills. Interpersonal skills. influencing skills. Listening skills.
Problem solving and decision -making skills. Change Orientation. Personal
Commitment. Report writing skills. Team leadership. Customer service
Orientation. Computer literacy. Problem Analysis and Decision Making.
Extended working hours. Extensive Travelling. Valid driver’s license and the
ability to drive.
DUTIES : Application and enforcement of legislation and international agreements.
Conduct inspections and make recommendations in terms of the relevant
prescripts and take appropriate actions. Conduct searches of passengers,
motor vehicles etc. with regards to illegal imports of regulated agricultural
products by the appropriate means, i.e. physical inspections, sniffer dogs or X-
13
ray machines. Prohibition of the sale of imported and locally produced
agricultural products that do not comply with the relevant legislative prescripts.
Prohibition and detention of regulated agricultural products. Seize and
confiscate non- compliant agricultural products. Handle consignments destined
for export that do not comply with the legislative requirements or international
agreements or rejected by the assignees. Initiate investigations into the illegal
importation, exportation and movement of regulated agricultural products as
well as other fraudulent activities. Institute legal action for non-compliance.
Attend and give evidence during court cases where necessary. Handle
complaints, queries and enquiries from customers. Issue phytosanitary, quality
and export certificates as required for international trade purposes. Provide
advisory services to stakeholders Liaise with and provide advice to
stakeholders (e.g., trade organisations, industries, private sector institutions,
importers/exporters, legal representatives, and the assignees, etc) regarding
the operational application of the relevant Acts, prescripts, certification
schemes, norms and standards. Perform Administrative duties. Develop and
maintain databases. Compile and submit the relevant reports and submissions
as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr A.G Tsako Tel: (021) 809 1641
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
AFQTrecruit10@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African and Coloured Males and Females, and Persons with
disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16H00
POST 12/11 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: TRANSPORT, FLEET AND TRAVEL
MANAGEMENT REF NO 3/3/1/14/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Financial
Management/ Financial Accounting / Commerce / Public Administration
(Management) (NQF level 6). Minimum of 1 year experience in financial
administration environment. Job related knowledge: Treasury Regulations.
Division of Revenue Act. Financial regulations and Public Finance
Management Act. Job-related skills: Computer skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills. Good interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Render payments services: Receive, verify, reconcile and compile suppliers’
invoices on a daily basis. Distribute invoices to compilers. Check payments
parcel for compliance and accuracy before they are paid. Capture payments
on BAS. Compile financial reports (monthly and quarterly reports): Request
system generated reports and compile information reports as per item and
amount. Reconcile system reports with distribution list. Record 30 days
payment register. Assist in coordinating effective financial management: Utilise
correct SCOA allocations. Develop and implement policies and procedures in
area of responsibility: Assist with developing the sectional policies Travel
accounts. Participate in management and development of staff: Supervisory.
Determine the applicable or relevant courses.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Amanda Le Roux Tel: (012) 312 8438
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SATFTMrecruit14@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males, African Females and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/12 : AUXILIARY SERVICES OFFICER: RESEARCH REF NO: 3/3/1/15/2026
Directorate: Grootfontein Agricultural Development Institute (GADI)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Middelburg (Eastern Cape)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 10 or equivalent. No previous
experience required. Job-related skills: Computer skills and research skills.
The ability to work proactively and under pressure. Ability to work efficiently
and effectively at all times. Be willing to work extended working hours.
Willingness to travel. A valid driver’s license.
14
DUTIES : Perform research specific (according to project plan) activities in respect of
research subjects (animals/plants): Taking, processing, packaging of samples.
Drying of samples. Determine moisture loss in samples. Safekeeping of
research equipment. Preparation of research equipment /facilities. Record data
(quality, weight, size, quality etc. Perform general maintenance activities in
respect of research subjects (animals/plants): Planting, Soil cultivation and
preparation e.g. cleaning, houghing, etc. Irrigation of crops. Apply chemical
crop protection e.g. operate a knapsack. Reaping, grading, weighing, packing
and storage of farm produce. Daily tending of crops/orchards/vineyards e.g.
Pruning, weeding etc. Watering of livestock. Care for sick livestock. Dipping,
vaccination & closing. Assist with calving, lambing, hatching etc. Count
livestock. Shepherding, moving, weighing of live stock. Slaughtering, culling.
Weighing, milling, mixing of feeds. Feeding. Milking. Cleaning of facilities.
Disposal of farm waste material. Provide water supply for livestock and farm
buildings. Care for equipment e.g. cleaning, oiling, sharpening etc. Firefighting
and prevention. Opening of springs, troughs and unblocking of drains. Loading
/off-loading. Assist lecturers and students with practical work and work
integrated learning: Prepare practical material. Provide hands-on
demonstrations to students. Transporting of students to practical sites. Care for
student plants/crop/animals during students’ holidays. Perform administrative
tasks: Updating of registers. Daily record keeping. Keep time sheets on work
performed by casuals.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Willem Olivier Tel: (049) 802 6620
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ASORrecruit15@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males, African Females, White Males and Persons with
disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/13 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 3/3/1/11/2026
Directorate: Animal Production
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate. No previous
experience required Job Related Knowledge: Applicants must have knowledge
of clerical duties, practices as well as ability to capture data, operate computer
and collecting statistics. Knowledge and understanding of the legislation
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of working procedures in
terms of the working environment. Job Related Skills: Language, Good verbal
and written communication skills. Planning and organization skills. Computer
literacy. Interpersonal relations, Flexibility and Teamwork.
DUTIES : Support administration of regulatory functions of the Animal Improvement Act,
1998 (Act 62 of 1998). Maintain efficient filling system and handle incoming
and outgoing document registers. Handle enquiries from both internal and
external clients. Maintain and update the Sub-Directorate’s central database to
ensure access to operational statistics and accuracy. Maintain an electronic
filing system to allow for retrieval of documents. Draft report (monthly, quarterly
and annual report) for animal improvement regulatory functions. Assist with
evaluation and processing of application forms for reproduction operators.
Receive and evaluate application form for registration or re-registration. Open
files for each application received. Register reproduction operator file on the
database. Issue out certificate and confirmation letter of registration. Open,
maintain, and manage files, records and database according to the Act’s
prescripts and departmental procedures. Maintain database of assisted
reproduction training centres. Draft reports (monthly, quarterly and annual
report) of reproduction operators. Support compliance processes. Assist in
conducting first-party compliance assessments by ensuring all necessary
documentation and evidence is available and correctly captured. Maintain a
portfolio of evidence for various compliance requirements such as sterilization
certificates, pedigree information of imported and exported animal and genetic
material, proof of payment of administration fee, certificates or marks of
reproduction operators. Support monitoring of training on assisted reproduction
and import and export matters. Update assisted reproduction training centres.
Liaison with clients on animal improvement services. Acting as the first line of
communication for external clients (e.g. breeders, farmers, the public, and
15
other government agencies) via telephone, email and in-person visits. Provide
advisory services to clients on animal improvement regulations. Assist clients
on relevant aspects relating to the administration of the Animal Improvement
Act. Managing both incoming and outgoing correspondence on animal
improvement matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Mmaphuti Setati Tel: (012) 319 7093
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ACrecruit11@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/14 : LABORATORY ASSISTANT REF NO: 3/3/1/12/2026
Chief Directorate: Inspection and Quarantine Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Western Cape: Stellenbosch
REQUIREMENTS : Possession of Grade 12 certificate. No experience is needed. Job Related
Knowledge: Public Service and Departmental prescripts/policies. Occupational
Health and Safety Act. Computer literate in MS Office software. Public
Regulations. Cultural diversity. Job Related Skills: Good interpersonal skills,
Ability to communicate well with people at different levels, Planning and
organizing skills, A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Prepare samples and resources for the detection of plant pathogens (bacteria,
fungi, nematodes, viruses, etc.) including processing and labelling samples;
collecting / taking samples for preparation (i.e. plant parts, water, soil, tissue);
preparation of sample material by e.g. weighing, cutting, grinding, etc.;
preparation of media, stains, buffers and reagents; storage of samples; packing
and/or transporting of samples; assist in decontamination and disposal of used
samples; removal of waste as prescribed. Perform routine analysis on
diagnostic samples under supervision of senior personnel. Propagation of
seeds and plants. Maintenance of plants. Perform basic maintenance on
selected equipment, instrumentation and facilities. Report all faulty equipment.
Maintain tidiness of laboratories, clean/sterilize glassware, wash lab coats and
clean equipment. Monitor temperature of allocated facilities/equipment.
Perform administrative and related functions including record-keeping and
updating of identified registers and databases, inventory control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Melanie Arendse Tel: (021) 809 1605
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
LArecruit12@nda.gov.za.
NOTE : EE Target: African Males and Females and Persons with disability.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
POST 12/15 : ASSISTANT ARTISAN REF NO 3/3/1/13/2025
Chief Directorate: Natural Resources and Disaster Management
SALARY : R163 680 per annum (Level 03)
CENTRE : Northern Cape: Upington
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in a possession of an ABET/ Basic Education. No
Experience required. Job Related Knowledge: Knowledge of the Public Service
Regulations. Procurement procedures. Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Cultural diversity. Health and Safety. Job Related Skills: Planning and
organising skills. Good communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Problem
solving. Interpretation skills. Analytical skills. Listening skills. Extended working
hours.
DUTIES : Collect Samples (blackfly larvae samples). Collect samples from the river as
identified. Count samples and take them back to the river. Maintaining
monitoring sites. Provide support in the control of migratory pets (blackfly,
locust and quelea). Load and offloading chemicals and equipment. Shake
chemical and fil tanks with chemical. Clean the tanks. Maintain and repair
migratory pests control equipment. Conduct minor repairs and service of
motorized spraying equipment. Assemble and disassemble the engine of
pumps for repair. Clean stores, workshop, departmental vehicles and terrain.
Clean offices, kitchen and toilets. Clean stores, workshops and departmental
vehicles. Clean the terrain by maintaining the lawn, cut grass, prune trees and
water the plant.
16
ENQUIRIES : Ms Gladys Jaers Tel: (060) 886 1508
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, ARCADIA, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
AArecruit13@nda.gov.za.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
17
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVE GOVERNANCE
The vision of the Department of Cooperative Governance is one of having a well co-ordinated system of
Government consisting of National, Provincial and Local spheres working together to achieve
sustainable development and service delivery. The Department intends to invest in human capital,
increase integrated technical capacity directed at service delivery and promote representivity in the
Department through the filling of these posts. The candidature of persons whose
appointment/transfer/promotion will promote representivity will therefore receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications must be submitted electronically via email to:
Recruitment30@cogta.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : Applicants are advised that a new application for employment (Z83) has been
in effect since 1 January 2021. The new application for employment form can
be downloaded at http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications
submitted using the old Z83 form will not be accepted. Applications must be
accompanied by a comprehensive CV, with specific starting and ending dates
in all relevant positions and clarity on the levels and ranks pertaining to
experience, as well as current remuneration package, as well as at least 2
contactable references. A recommended CV template is available on the
department’s website on www.cogta.gov.za, click on the jobs tab. Only
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit certified documents/ copies
on or before the interviews. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Incomplete applications or applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Following the
interview and technical exercise(s), the selection panel will recommend
candidates to attend a generic managerial competency assessment (in
compliance with the DPSA directive on the implementation of competency-
based assessments). The competency assessment will be testing generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Core competencies: Strategic capacity and leadership.
People management and empowerment. Advanced programme and project
management. Change management. Financial management. Process
Competencies: Knowledge management. Service Delivery Innovation.
Advanced problem-solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer
focus. Advanced communication skills (written and verbal). The successful
candidate will be appointed to positive results of a pre-employment screening
process which includes criminal, credit, citizenship checks and verification of
educational qualification certificates. The successful candidate will be
appointed to probation for a period of 12 months and will be required to sign a
performance agreement. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s
responsibility to ensure that all information and attachments in support of the
application are submitted by the due date. Correspondence will be limited to
short-listed candidates only. If you have not been contacted within three
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right to make
an appointment. The requirements for appointment at Senior Management
Service level include the successful completion of Senior Management Pre-
entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, which
can be accessed using the following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Candidates must provide proof of
successful completion of the course prior to appointment. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
OTHER POST
POST 12/16 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT (REF NO: DCOG – AC)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A National Senior Certificate or equivalent qualification. Proficiency in MS
Excel, Ms Word and MS Teams. Senior certificate with accounting will be an
18
added advantage Other: Knowledge of and experience in working with BAS.
Generic Competencies: Quality of work, Initiative, Interpersonal Relations,
Planning and execution. Reliability. Communication (Verbal and written),
Teamwork. Technical Competencies: Public Finance Management Act, 1999
(Act No. 1 of 1999). Treasury Regulations, general ledger reconciliation and
analysis. Public sector accounting practices and procedures. Transversal
systems of Government (Basic Accounting Services).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Administer
document control and safeguarding of documents. Responsible for finance
invoice tracking register. Capturing payments and journals on BAS. Perform
monthly reconciliation of payments processed on BAS. Perform daily payments
disbursed on BAS.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Ndivhuho Mathekgane Tel No: (012) 334 0594
19
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability)
through the filling of these posts with candidates whose transfer/promotion/
appointment will promote representivity in line with the numeric targets as
contained in our Employment Equity plan. Applications must be submitted on
the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from any Public Service Department office
i.e effective 01 January 2021 or on the DPSA web site link:
https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an application be received
using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will be disqualified, which
must be originally signed and dated by the applicant, and which must be
accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the applicants’
training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience). Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified. Applicants applying for
more than one post must submit a separate form Z83 (as well as the
documentation mentioned above) in respect of each post being applied for. If
an applicant wishes to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing.
Should an application be received where an applicant applies for more than
one post on the same applications form, the application will only be considered
for the first post indicated on the application and not for any of the other posts.
Under no circumstances will photostat copies or faxed copies of application
documents be accepted. The successful candidates will be subjected to
Personnel Suitability Checks (criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset
record checks and qualification and employment verification). Successful
candidates will also be subjected to security clearance processes. The level of
appointments is dependent upon, qualifications, relevant experience and
research output. The shortlisted candidates including SMS will be subjected to
two (2) pre-entry assessments (practical and ethical exercise) which will
determine the candidate’s suitability. Applicants who do not receive
confirmation or feedback within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please
consider your application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses
anticipated, receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and
correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. For more
information on the job description(s) please contact the person indicated in the
post details. Successful candidates will be appointed on probation for the
period of twelve (12) months in terms of the prescribed rules.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/17 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCE RISK MANAGEMENT REF NO:
FMD/01/12/26/01
Finance Management Division, Chief Directorate Financial Services
Directorate Financial Control Services (Finance Risk Management)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level
7) in Finance, Auditing and Management Accounting. A minimum of three years
(3) relevant working experience at supervisory level. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Computer literate and working knowledge of MS
Word, Excel, and Database application, with audit and Risk Management skills.
Well-developed reasoning, mathematical, as well as problem solving ability.
Good communication and negotiating skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation
and prescripts. Proven ability to function independently. South African
citizenship, willing and able to travel extensively at short notice and to work
after hours at short notice.
DUTIES : Effectively identify financial risks within Finance business processes and
facilitate annual risk assessments and implementation of action plans. Maintain
20
the risk database of the FMD. Serve on the Consultative Risk Management
Forum of the DOD. Issue Risk Management guidelines that must be adhered
to when FMD Business Plans are compiled. Monitor and ensure that risks are
managed in accordance with Risk Management Plans submitted by the various
Finance Managers. Draft monthly reports wrt the status of risks being managed
by the Finance Managers. Assess Audit Management Reports (internal and
external) to determine whether finance risks were found and what treatment is
required. Liaise with Finance Managers regarding the management, reporting
and treatment of risk. Provide training wrt Risk Management when and where
required. Monitor and maintain the integrity of the FMD Risk Management
System. As and when required, conduct investigations to determine whether
the internal control measures within the FMD are effective in preventing risks
from occurring. Perform the annual risk assessment of the FMD. Provide
guidance to FMD management regarding the treatment of risk. Ensure that
management responses to all external (whole DOD) and internal (FMD only)
audit findings are submitted to the auditors within the timeframes provided.
Facilitate quarterly and monthly meetings between the external auditor (AGSA)
and the DOD top management. Assist with the secretariat functions on
meetings Director Financial Control Service is part of. Facilitate the preparation
of responses to Portfolio Committee on Defence during and after annual
hearings. Execute personnel management tasks wrt the personnel resorting
under the control of this post.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Nkomo, Tel no: 012 355 5830
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit1FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/18 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MISCONDUCT REF: FMD/01/12/26/02
Finance Management Division, Chief Directorate Financial Services,
Directorate Financial Control Services (Financial Misconduct)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7)
in Finance, Auditing and Management Accounting. A minimum of three years
(3) relevant working experience at supervisory level. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Extensive knowledge of the application of the
Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations and all SCM prescripts.
Well-developed verbal and written communication skills, with a strong
command of the English language. Computer literate and advanced working
knowledge of Word Processing, spreadsheets and database applications.
Ability to effectively and correctly interpret and apply legislation and ability to
communicate with senior stakeholders both internally and externally. Analytical
and innovative thinking and well-developed reasoning and problem-solving
ability. Proven managerial capabilities at middle management level with good
communication, negotiating and presentation skills. Be able to function
independently and strongly orientated towards teamwork. Must be willing and
able to travel extensively at short notice.
DUTIES : Maintain the DOD unauthorized, irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure
registers with accurate information. Consolidate the DOD financial misconduct
report. Compile the unauthorized, irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure
disclosure notes for the annual and interim financial statements. Provide
secretarial services to financial misconduct related meetings. Provide accurate
information to be presented at senior management meetings. Provide support
to the Department in resolving unauthorized, irregular, fruitless and wasteful
expenditure. Provide financial misconduct management training to the
Department. Compile submissions and presentations to SMS and outside
stakeholders. Prepare AGSA responses and audit files for the Annual audit,
and as well submissions to National Treasury.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Nkomo, Tel no: 012 355 5830
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit2FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
21
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/19 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/03
Financial Management Division, Chief Directorate Accounting, Directorate
Personnel Payments (Final Payments)
SALARY : R468 459 – R551 823 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent with a Bachelor’s Degree (NQF Level 7)
in Finance, Auditing and Management Accounting. A minimum of three years
(3) relevant working experience at supervisory level. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Knowledge sound reasoning, mathematical,
accounting and problem-solving ability with strong supervisory skills.
Knowledge of relevant legislation and prescripts. Knowledge of computer
systems in the Public Service/Private Sector, including Persol/Persal, MS Word
and Excel, Bankserv and Telegraphic Transfers (TT). Well-developed verbal
and written communications skills, very conscientious and motivated towards
producing effective, efficient and correct work and always aiming for a zero-
defect environment. Ability to effectively function as part of a team, receptive to
work-related suggestions and ideas. Decisive/persevering regarding task
finalisation and able to effectively function under pressure.
DUTIES : Ensuring effective execution of prescribed accounting processes related to the
payments of financial benefits of employees who are terminating service.
Ensuring that calculation of the leave payments, pro-rata service bonus and
accounting of overpaid amounts to be recovered from ex-employees are
correct and in accordance with prescripts. Constant collaboration and
communication with the Deputy Director regarding all functions and tasks
coupled to the post. Manage and coordinate related administrative tasks.
Supervision, guiding and training of Senior State Accountant, Finance Clerk
Supervisor and Finance Clerks, resorting under the control of this post.
Authorising and approving all final payments related transactions on Persol and
on the Financial Management System (FMS). Submitting Bi-annual and Annual
tax reconciliation (EMP 501) to SARS for department of Defence. Preparing
monthly (EMP201) and annual tax reconciliation. Distributing of IRP 5- Tax
certificates and responding to tax queries Issuing of Duplicate and handwritten
IRP 5- Tax certificates Calculating tax on handwritten salary
payments/disallowance. Working through tax reports to ensure that IRP 5-Tax
certificates print correctly and Requesting tax directives with SARS.
Administration of Pension deduction payments to GEPF for employees within
the DOD. Monitor all relevant account balances and transactions on FMS.
Distribution of all DOD members’ salary to Bank Serv. Administration of DPP
Accounts Control: Manage and administer all Accounts in use by DPP.
Ensuring that all accounting records, documentation, statistics and files are
safeguarded and readily available for audit purposes. Assisting in handling
ministerial and audit general enquiries concerning final payments. Ensure that
all day-to-day Bankserv and other miscellaneous transaction are authorised.
Looking up and printing final payments related management information and
statistics from the Persol and FMS. Effectively supervising all personnel,
assets, information and material under his/her control.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J.G. Lottering, Tel: 012 392 2413
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001or email to Recruit3FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/20 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SUPERVISOR: REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/04
Financial Management Division, Chief Directorate Financial Services,
Directorate Financial Control Services, Loss Administration Section
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a Minimum of three
(3) years relevant working experience in Finance/Accounting. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Knowledge and insight of the Public Service
22
financial legislations and procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA,
PSA, PSR, PPPFA, and Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic financial
operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Knowledge of financial
functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data and collate financial
statistics. Computer operating skills (Microsoft office). Planning and organising
skills. Good verbal and written communication skills. Language proficiency in
English. Ability to perform routine task. Interpersonal relations. Teamwork and
Good work ethics. Supervisory skills and ability to train, develop and mentor
junior and senior clerks in the section.
DUTIES : Ensure that internal controls with regard to loss administration are monitored
and implemented. Ensure that all administrative tasks are executed and
finalized by the target dates. Maintain control over the internal Registry office
and ensure that all incoming and outgoing correspondence, documents and
files are effectively sorted, registered, filed and routed. Supervise the checking
and evaluating of loss reports, the rejection of invalid reports and referral
thereof to the sections concerned. Manage and supervise the correct allocation
of file reference numbers and the opening and up keeping of separate files for
each loss report case as well as the updating of the database on Excel. Ensure
that the Excel database is regularly updated as soon as the Senior Accountant
has dealt with the loss reports. Maintain and supervise and effective pending
system to ensure that all non-finalised loss report files are held over and routed
to the Senior State Accountant or the Assistant Director on the specific target
dates. Regularly compile and submit the prescribed weekly and monthly
management reports. Manage and supervise all personnel under control of this
post as far as leave, performance assessment, training, development and
disciplinary matters are concerned. Effectively manage all assets and material
ENQUIRIES : Ms M.L. Mabasa, Tel no: 012 392 2564
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit3FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/21 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SUPERVISOR: REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/05
Financial Management Division, Directorate Stores, and Services and Related
Payments, Financial Accounting Service Centre, FASC Lohathla
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Northern Cape
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years relevant working experience in Finance/Accounting. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Language proficiency in English. Knowledge and
insight of the Public Service financial legislations and procedures and Treasury
regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge
of financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Knowledge of
financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge of financial and accounting processes.
Computer operating skills (Microsoft office). Planning and organising skills.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Supervisory skills. Ability to
train, develop and mentor junior and senior clerks in the section. Ability to
perform routine task. Good interpersonal relations. Teamwork and Good work
ethics.
DUTIES : Timely payment of all invoices. Timely confirmation of all Telkom and Freight
Order accounts. Timely finalisation of all Central Advance System events and
transactions. Successful monthly execution of Central Advance System cash
counts. Quarterly confirmation of correctness of Face Value Document
administration. Report, investigate and follows up of all finance related
irregularities. Manage the preparation of supplier accounts by verifying
payment documents for anomalies and verify payments on FMS and couple
invoices for payment. Manage administration iro cash payments, advances
purchases and PMG account deposits. Manage/supervise all personnel who
resort under the post.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D.D. Nchabeleng, Tel no: 012 392 2892
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit4FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
23
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/22 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: SUPERVISOR REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/06 (3X
POSTS)
Finance Management Division, Chief Directorate Budget Management:
SAMHS Budget Management: Command, MH Training Formation Budget and
Base Support Budget Management
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent, with a minimum of three
(3) years relevant working experience in Finance/Accounting Special
requirements/Skills needed: Language proficiency in English. Knowledge and
insight of the Public Service financial legislations and procedures and Treasury
regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge
of financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Knowledge of
financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data and collate
financial statistics. Basic knowledge of financial and accounting processes.
Computer operating skills (Microsoft office). Planning and organising skills.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Supervisory skills. Ability to
train, develop and mentor junior and senior clerks in the section. Ability to
perform routine task. Good interpersonal relations. Teamwork and Good work
ethics.
DUTIES : Provisioning of financial management services in area of responsibility.
Support the execution of the financial plan. Application of Budget Management
policies and instructions. Provide the FMS (mainframe) service to area of
responsibility. Ensure compliance to the delegation regime. Provide assistance
related to financial matters (processes and procedures). Provisioning of a
budget management service for the Medium term expenditure framework
(MTEF). Support the financial aspects of the business plan (MTEF). Customise
the financial aspects of the commander’s brief for the area of responsibility.
Assist with the preparation of the Estimate of Expenditure (EOE). Capture the
EOE on FMS. Participate in the process to finalise the Annual Performance
Plan (APP). Provide an expenditure and revenue budget control service to an
area of responsibility. Execute internal control mechanisms. Apply the
monitoring and evaluation protocols. Execute monitoring and evaluation
protocols. Control and monitor direct debit expenditure. Execute the
adjustment of the budget. Provide financial management advice to area of
responsibility. Provide financial management advice for the financial
management process. Ensure Budget Holder support for all financial
management matters. Provide financial advice for informed decision making.
Provide financial management direction at the operating level in the area of
responsibility. The provisioning of support for financial reporting requirements
within the area of responsibility. Define the financial reporting requirements in
area of responsibility. Extract report from data repository. Obtain and distribute
financial reports to clients and subordinates. Interpret report and make
recommendations to support managerial decisions. Provide the support for
management of financial governance, risk and compliance (GRC). Monitor
reported incidents on the Consolidated Control System (CCS) wrt all financial
GRC. Implement proposed changes to the internal control system wrt financial
GRC in area of responsibility. Implement the recommendations from the action
plan. Support the process to report financial misconduct. Provide financial audit
information on enquiries. Administer the allocated resources. Participate in a
well administered budget management human resource component in area of
responsibility. Take minutes and recordkeeping for relevant meetings and
discussions. Contribute to the support of the budget management capability.
Comply with Occupational Health and Safety standards within allocated
facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L. Nagel Tel no: 012 355 5807
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit1FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
24
POST 12/23 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/07
Financial Management Division, Directorate Stores, Services and Related
Payments (DSSRP), FASC Lenz
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Johannesburg
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Language proficiency in English. Knowledge and
understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, and National Treasury practice
notes on supply chain processes (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial
Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS,
LOGIS etc). Basic knowledge of financial/accounting processes, contract
management and supply chain management process. Computer literate in MS
Office software packages (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good verbal and
written communication skills. Ability to perform routine task. Flexibility and
Good Interpersonal relations. Willing to be detached to Satellite Offices across
geographical boundaries. Willing to work with cash (as cashier), in Rand and
Foreign currency. Willing to assist with general administrative functions and
archiving /filing/safekeeping of all accounting documentation.
DUTIES : Strictly apply policies, prescriptions and regulation. Performing of cashier
duties by paying out of cash advances. Receipt of State monies in to the
paymaster General Account (PMG). Receive cash from client and verify or
correctness in terms of the purpose of the payment. Issue an official receipt.
Accurate allocation of Revenue. Timely preparation and capturing of deposits
on FMS and securely dispatching of deposits to the bank. Safekeeping and
issuing of Face Value Documents (FVD). Archiving of Accounting documents,
Safekeeping of payment and other accounting documentation for audit
purposes. Utilise the Financial Management System (FMS) to regularly record
all accounting transactions and do enquiries, administering of claims on the
central Advance System and capturing of all related accounting transactions
on FMS. Confirmation of TELKOM accounts and assisting with general
administration and accounting functions at the FASC. Scrutinise, verify, register
and couple medical and supplier invoices for payment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D.D. Nchabeleng, Tel no: 012 392 2892
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit2FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/24 : ACCOUNTING CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/08
Finance Management Division, Chief Directorate Accounting, Directorate
Personnel Payments, Account Control
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Language proficiency in English. Basic knowledge
of financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and collate
financial statistics. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, and National Treasury practice notes on supply chain processes
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic
financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Knowledge of
calculation and processing of salaries and allowances, final payments when
officials terminate service and subsistence and travel allowance reconciliations
Computer literate in MS Office software packages (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint). Good verbal and written communication skills. Ability to perform
routine task. Flexibility, Good Interpersonal relations skills.
DUTIES : Execution of the prescribed accounting processes related to payments of
benefits due to Department of Defence (DOD) personnel that exit DOD,
salaries and allowances to DOD personnel in service, subsistence and travel
allowances both domestic and foreign. Executing of the constant collaboration
and communication with supervisors, management of self-discipline, data
capturing on DOD accounting and salary systems, administration of DOD
25
payments files and related documents. Assisting in the coordination and
execution of administrative related tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J.G. Lottering, Tel no: 012 392 2413
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit3FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/25 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/09 (2
POSTS)
Finance Management Division, Chief Directorate Accounting, Directorate
Personnel Payments (S & T sub-section)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Language proficiency in English. Basic knowledge
of financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and collate
financial statistics. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, and National Treasury practice notes on supply chain processes
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic
financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Knowledge of
calculation and processing of salaries and allowances, final payments when
officials terminate service and subsistence and travel allowance
reconciliations. Computer literate in MS Office software packages (Word, Excel
and PowerPoint). Good verbal and written communication skills. Ability to
perform routine task. Flexibility, Good Interpersonal relations skills.
DUTIES : Execution of the prescribed accounting processes related to payments of
benefits due to DOD personnel, S&T and allowances to DOD personnel in
service, subsistence and travel allowances both domestic and foreign.
Executing of the constant collaboration and communication with supervisors,
management of self-discipline, data capturing on DOD accounting systems,
administration of DOD payments files and related documents. Assisting in the
coordination and execution of administrative related tasks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J.G. Lottering, Tel no: 012 392 2417
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit4FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/26 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: PRODUCTION: REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/10
Finance Management Division, Chief Directorate Budget Management,
SAMHS
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Language proficiency in English. Basic knowledge
of financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data and collate
financial statistics. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, and National Treasury practice notes on supply chain processes
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic
financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Knowledge of
Financial Management system (FMS), report writing system (IC), Departmental
Accounting, Standard Chart of Accounts. Computer literate in MS Office
software packages (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to perform routine task. Flexibility, Good
Interpersonal relations. Planning and organisation skills.
DUTIES : Provisioning of a budget management service for the Medium term expenditure
framework (MTEF). Assist and participate in the process to develop the Annual
Performance plan financial management guidelines. Assist in providing an
expenditure and revenue budget control service in the area of responsibility.
Provide administrative Financial Management System Budget Control
26
functions. Provide budget control policy advice. Execute the administration of
FMS Budget Control functions. Monitor the budget control aspects within the
area of responsibility. Provide and reproduce financial reports as required by
clients. Reproduce developed financial management reports. Distribute
financial reports. Perform a variety of routine administrative duties.
Administration to reserve al financial management documentation for audit.
Taking minutes and recordkeeping for relevant meetings and discussions.
Reproduction of all financial management documentation. Distribution of office
documentation. The administering of allocated resources. Contribute to the
support of the budget management capability. Comply with Occupational
Health and Safety standards within allocated facilities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L. Nagel Tel no: 012 355 5807.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit1FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/27 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: PRODUCTION: REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/11 (2
POSTS)
Finance Management Division, Directorate Stores, Services and Related
Payments, Sub Directorate Supplier Payments
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent No experience. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Language proficiency in English. Knowledge and
understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulations, and National Treasury practice
notes on supply chain processes (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial
Manual). Knowledge of basic financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS,
LOGIS etc). Basic knowledge of financial /accounting processes, and supply
chain management process. Computer literate in MS Office software packages
(Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good verbal and written communication skills.
Ability to perform routine task. Flexibility and Good Interpersonal relations
skills.
DUTIES : Ensuring the timely payments of invoice by scrutinizing, verifying, registering
and coupling supplier invoice for payments. Capturing and Compiling of
journals on a monthly basis. Ensure filling of all invoices accurately and archive
them for safety purposes.Strictly apply policy, prescripts and regulation to
ensure the correctness of payments. Assisting in compiling and submitting of
accounting reports and management information statistics. Reports on all
irregularities as detected in the executions of his/her duties. Safekeeping of
payments and accounting documentation in terms of PFMA and Treasury
Regulation for audit purposes. Utilize the financial management system (FMS)
to regularly record all accounting transaction and enquiries.
Collecting/delivering of supplier payments related documents at/to other
sections concerned.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N.B. Maseko, Tel no: 012 392 2353
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit2FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/28 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/12
Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance Support Services, Sub-
directorate Contract Administration
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent No experience. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Knowledge of general contract
Administration/Management fundamentals. Knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics. Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury
27
Regulations, and National Treasury practice notes on supply chain processes
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic
financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Basic knowledge of
financial /accounting processes, and supply chain management process.
Computer literate in MS Office software packages (Word, Excel and
PowerPoint). Good verbal and written communication skills. Ability to perform
routine task. Flexibility and good Interpersonal relations skills. Ability to compile
effective and comprehensive reports, letters, memoranda, minutes. Teamwork,
but must also be able to operate independently. Trustworthy and reliable.
DUTIES : Perform general office administration tasks. Receive, register and administer
new contracts for studies, incentive scheme for pilots, navigators, technical
officers, Special Forces operators and other agreements. Scrutinize contracts
for compliance with applicable policy prescripts. Capturing of contracts on the
database. Maintain and update the contracts/agreements (Memorandums of
Agreements (MOAs), Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) and Service
Level Agreements (SLAs) register. Collect, deliver, dispatch documentation for
the section to Arms of Services and Divisions. Maintain filing and archiving of
contract system. Attend to telephonic enquiries and queries. Attend meetings
and conduct presentations relating to studies at State expense. Draft and type
letters, memorandums, signals, minutes and other contract related documents.
Assist in the execution and co-ordination of administrative tasks. Provide
secretarial functions at meetings when required. Capture and update contract
files on the database. Process the officials’ reimbursement applications for
studies. Submit monthly reports and statistics to the supervisor. Liaise with
contract and career managers across the Arms of Services and Divisions. Must
be able to travel across the country within a short notice.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L.S. Kothle Tel no: 012 392 2557
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, and Private Bag X 137,
Pretoria, 0001 or email to Recruit3FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants
are stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to:
Poynton building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in
wooden post box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number
POST 12/29 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: PRODUCTION REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/13
Finance Management Division, Chief Directorate Financial Services,
Directorate Finance Support Services, Specialised Finance Services,
Administration Support
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience Special
requirements/Skills needed: Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, and National Treasury practice notes on supply chain processes
(PFMA, DORA, PSA, PSR, PPPFA, Financial Manual). Knowledge of basic
financial operating systems (PERSAL, BAS, LOGIS etc). Knowledge of
financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data, and collate
financial statistics Basic knowledge of financial /accounting processes, and
supply chain management process. Computer literate in MS Office software
packages (Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Good verbal and written
communication skills. Ability to perform routine task. Flexibility and Good
Interpersonal relations skills. Ability to compile effective reports, letters
memorandums, minutes. Be able travel, Able to handle routine tasks of
repetitive nature
DUTIES : Provide supply chain functions and services within the procurement
environment. Manage the petty cash system for the directorate.
Compile/submit management reports. Receive, register and administer new
demands/request from clients. Maintain a procurement register. Assist in
checking and verifying of items received and items issued to and from clients.
Ensure that assets are tagged and captured in the Asset Register. Conduct
stocktake and verification of assets. Distribute inventories and assets to clients
upon delivery, Ensure that all transactions are reconciled not later than the
prescribed period. Ensure that Receipt Vouchers (RVs) are printed. Assist the
purchasing officer whenever required with procurement for the Division. Utilise
the Financial Management System (FMS) to verify availability of funds and the
correctness of series before a petty cash transaction is submitted for approval
to the procurement officer, budget holder and the budget manager. Ensure the
28
effective, efficient, economic and management of all resources under the
control of this post.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L.S. Khotle, Tel 012 392 2557.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit4FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/30 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: PRODUCTION: REF NO: FMD/01/12/26/14
Financial Management Division, Chief Directorate Finance Services,
Directorate Finance Support Services, Finance ETD Centre
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience. Special
requirements/Skills needed: Knowledge of clerical duties, practices as well as
the as the ability to capture data operate computer and collecting statics.
Knowledge of working procedure in terms of the working environment.
Computer literate (MS Office software packages). Analytical and innovative
thinking ability as well as problem solving ability. Good communication skills
and good interpersonal skills. Strongly oriented towards team work, receptive
toward work-related suggestion/ideas, decisive/persevering IRO task
finalisation. Ability to compile and draft basic reports and returns. Knowledge
of the operating and utilizing of the ETD processes in the Public service/Private
sector. Ability to effectively and correctly interpret and apply policy and
regulations.
DUTIES : Deliver general administrative duties in order to assist in the efficient and
effective management of the prescribed education, training and development
function of all personnel within the Financial Management Division. Maintain
and administering an effective internal Registry Office of all documents, reports
and other related documentation in the section. Receive, registering,
distributing, copying and filing of documentation for the section. Assist in
arranging and managing accommodation and transport for learners, obtaining
and issuing of course material and keeping of attendance register of all
learners. Assisting in typing, copying and distributing course reports, name list,
schedules, letter, memos and other related correspondence. Capturing of
course attendance data and course results on the MILQUAL program on the
PERSOL system and doing enquiries on the system. Assisting with general
administration duties of the centre which includes inventory, budgeting,
procurement of stock etc required by the centre for students. Keep attendance
record of all personnel in the section and submitting the monthly absenteeism
return.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M. Wehl, Tel no: 012 674 4740.
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137, Pretoria,
0001 or email to Recruit1FMD@dod.mil.za. In case where applicants are
stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to: Poynton
building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in wooden post
box number 5 at Reception: Please use reference number not post number.
POST 12/31 : SECRETARY (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 - R268 950 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Financial Management Division, Directorate Stores, Service and Related
Payments, Ref No: FMD/01/12/26/15A
Pretoria Directorate Finance Support Services Ref No: FMD/01/12/26/15B
Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum of Grade 12 (NQF Level 4) or equivalent. No experience Special
requirements/Skills needed Knowledge of clerical duties, practices and
working procedures. Ability to handle variety of tasks including management of
office assets stationery, procurement, etc. Computer literate (MS Office
software packages). Good telephone etiquette, and able to work under
pressure. Good interpersonal skills, adaptability and resourcefulness.
Applicant must have good communication skills and time management. Be
presentable, reliable and punctual.
29
DUTIES : Render effective and efficient secretarial services to the director. Take minutes
in Director’s meetings. Type a variety of documents, including agendas,
memos, letters and reports. Handle and maintain the Director’s diary,
correspondence, control files, process telephone calls and take messages.
Arrange entry authorisation, receiving visitors and serve tea/refreshments.
Arrange meetings, appointments, flights, accommodation and transport.
Ensure the director receives agendas and minutes timeously. Update and store
the director’s personal information. Remind the Director of the scheduled
meetings, appointments and submission of documents. Ensure the office is tidy
and inventory is maintained and updated. Receive, register, route and file
correspondence accordingly (i.e. agendas, minutes etc.). Applicant will also be
responsible for the procurement of office requirements in the Director’s office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms D.D. Nchabeleng, Tel No: 012 392 2892 and Ms M.P. Mohaila, Tel No: 012
392 2558/9
APPLICATIONS : Department of Defence, Financial Management Division, Directorate Finance
Support Service DFSS, Career Management Section, Private Bag X137,
Pretoria, 0001 or email to Recruit3FMD@dod.mil.za In case where applicants
are stationed in the Pretoria area, applications may be hand-delivered to:
Poynton building, 195 Bosman Street, Pretoria where it must be placed in
wooden post box number 5 at Reception. Please use reference number not
post number.
30
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
The Department of Electricity and Energy (DEE) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and
it is its intention to promote representativity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post(s).
Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity are encouraged to apply,
particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Submit your completed application using one of the following methods, post:
The Director-General, Department of Electricity and Energy, Private Bag X96,
Pretoria, 0001, or hand deliver at Matimba House Building 192 Visagie Street
(Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Street), Pretoria, or email directly to the email
address dedicated to a specific post. General enquiries may be brought to the
attention of Ms M Palare Tel No: 012 406 7426.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16h00 (Walk-in) 23h59 (online). N.B: It is the sole responsibility
of an applicant to ensure that their application reaches the Department on or
before the set deadline.
NOTE : Applicants are informed to submit their application(s) by completing the 2021
version of the Z83 form quoting the relevant reference number and a
comprehensive CV only. The CV must indicate qualifications, experience “if
any” and the period thereof. The 2021 version of the Z83 form is obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za or www.gov.za/documents. It is important to ensure that the
Z83 is completed in full. This means that all fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. It is acceptable under section E, F, G, for
applicants to indicate “refer to CV or see attached” due to the limited space
provided on the Z83 form. However, the question relating to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, but if you are already
in Public Service just indicate “N/A”. Please initial the form and sign the
declaration. Email application(s) must strictly be submitted as one (1) PDF
document or attachment (i.e. Z83 and CV scanned as one PDF document). It
is also important to indicate the correct job title and the reference number of
the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address
associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be
accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
submitted using the incorrect application form (old Z83) will not be considered.
Each advertised post must be accompanied by its own application for
employment. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications must submit an
evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) if
shortlisted. The Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants
who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well
as applications received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will result in the application not being considered. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All applicants for SMS posts will be also
subjected to a technical exercise and an interview. Following the interview and
technical exercise, then the selection panel will recommend candidates to
attend a generic managerial competency assessment using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. No SMS post appointment shall
be implemented without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry
certificate for SMS (Nyukela) obtainable from www.thensg.gov.za. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used solely for the administration of the recruitment process
or possible employment and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s) at any stage of the
31
recruitment process. The successful candidate will be expected to enter into a
performance agreement within three (3) months from the date of appointment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/32 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: DEMAND ACQUISITION AND CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DEE2026/001
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree/ Bachelor of Technology in Supply Chain Management,
Logistics, Business Management or B.COM Procurement NQF level 7 PLUS 3
years’ experience in Supply Chain Management environment at Supervisory/
Management level (ASD). Knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, SCM Framework, Logis, Constitution
Section 217, Contract Management Guideline and BBBEE Act. Skills: Good
verbal and written Communication Skills and ability to communicate at all
levels, Financial Management, Presentation Skills and Computer Skills.
Thinking Demand: Problem solving, Creativity, Ability to negotiate and Report
writing.
DUTIES : KRA’s: Manage and provide demand planning services, Manage the
provisioning of acquisition services. Coordinate and oversee contract
management. Manage the sub-directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr F Phiri Contact Number (012) 406 7713
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies1@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indians, Coloured and White males are encouraged to
apply.
POST 12/33 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: INTERNAL AUDIT REF: DEE2026/003
(12 Months Fixed Contract)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Diploma in Office Administration/ Office Management and
Technology or Public Administration at NQF level 6 recognised by South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA) PLUS 1 year post qualification
experience. Knowledge of relevant legislation/ policies/prescripts and
procedures. Basic knowledge of financial administration Skills: Language skills
and the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds, Good telephone etiquette, Computer literacy, Sound
organizational skills, Good people skills, High level of reliability, Ability to act
with tact discretion, Self-management and motivation. Thinking Demand:
Ability to do research and analyse documents and situations.
DUTIES : KRA’s Provide secretariat/receptionist support service to the Director. Render
administrative support services and ensure effective flow of documents.
Minutes taking and prepare briefing notes for the Director. Draft documents as
required and filling thereof. Coordinates logistical arrangements for meetings
and travelling. Administration of budget by assisting managers to determine
funding requirements, keeping records of expenditure, check and correlates
BAS reports. Manage leave register for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Figaret Contact Number (012) 406 7766
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies2@dee.gov.za
POST 12/34 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DEE2026/003
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Nation Diploma in Procurement Management/ Supply Chain
Management/ Logistics and Business Management at NQF level 6 PLUS 1-
year experience as an Administration Clerk in Supply Chain Management.
Knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations,
PPPFA, Supply Chain Management Framework, Logis Skills: Computer
Literacy, Financial, Good verbal and written communications, ability to
communicate at different levels, Thinking Demand: Problem solving, Creativity,
Ability to Negotiate, Report writing.
32
DUTIES : KRA’s: Assist line manager with demand planning (end user specifications).
Processing of requests for goods and services. Market research and
development of Sourcing strategy. Bid Specification Committee secretariat for
request below the value of R500k.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Msiza Contact Number (012) 406 7910
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies3@dee.gov.za
POST 12/35 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: DEE2026/004
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Matric/Grade 12 Certificate PLUS years 3-5 in Registry
environment. Knowledge of: National Archives and Records Services Act
(NARSA), (Act NO. 43 of 1996), Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA),
2000 (Act No.2 0f 2000), Public Finance Management Act, 1999 (Act No.46 of
1999), Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013 (Act No. 4 of
2013) and Minimum Information Security Standard (MISS) Skills: Managing
interpersonal conflict and resolving problems, Networking and building bonds,
Planning and organising, Interpersonal relations, Computer Literacy,
Communication (verbal and written) Management. Thinking Demand: Logical,
Creative/Innovative thinker, Objective, Accurate Diplomatic.
DUTIES : KRA’s: Supervise and provide registry counter services, Supervise the
handling of incoming and outgoing correspondences, Supervise and render an
effective filing and record management service, Supervise the operation and
operate office machines related to registry functions, Supervise the processing
and process documents for archiving and/ disposal and supervise human
resources/staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Malekana Contact Number (012) 406 7359
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies4@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, Indians, Coloured and White males are encouraged to
apply.
POST 12/36 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER REF: DEE2026/002 (2 POST)
(12 months fixed contract)
SALARY : R324 579.per annum (MR3)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in LLB or equivalent four-year legal qualification at NQF
Level 7 PLUS 2 years’ experience post legal qualification Knowledge of:
Legislation and DEE policies, Public Services Acts (PSA), Legal Drafting and
interpretation, Research and Court Procedures. Skills: Good Communication
Skills, Diplomacy, Negotiation Skills, Presentation Skills, Research and
Analytical Skills, Computer Skills. Thinking Demand: Problem solving,
Information evaluation, and Decision making.
DUTIES : KRA’s: Draft, review and amend legislation, agreements, policies and other
Legal documents. Conduct research and provide legal advice or opinions.
Administer the process of appeals. Facilitate and monitor the process of
litigation. Co- ordinate the process of access to information.
ENQUIRIES : Mr K Mogotsi Contact Number 012 406 7751
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies2@dee.gov.za
POST 12/37 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: (BID ADMINISTRATION) REF NO:
DEE2026/005
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 Certificate at NQF level 4 PLUS no experience required
Knowledge of: Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury
Regulations, PPPFA, Supply Chain Management Framework, Logis. Skills:
Computer Literacy, Financial, Good verbal and written communications, ability
to communicate at different levels, Thinking Demand: Problem solving,
Creativity, Ability to Negotiate, Report writing.
DUTIES : KRA’s: Advertise approved bids. Prepare bidding documents. Prepare
certificates of attendance and handouts for briefing sessions. Take minutes of
evaluation process. Extend closing date for bids and inform prospective
tenderers. Update tender registers. Compile request for orders
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Msiza Contact Number (012) 406 7910
33
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies4@dee.gov.za
POST 12/38 : ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK: REQUISITION AND ORDER REQUESTS REF
NO: DEE2026/006
SALARY : R228 321 per annum, (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/ Grade 12 Certificate at NQF level 4 recognised by South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA) PLUS no experience. Knowledge of: Public
Finance Management Act, Treasury Regulations, PPPFA, Supply Chain
Management Framework, Logis. Skills: Computer Literacy, Financial, Good
verbal and written communications, ability to communicate at different levels,
Thinking Demand: Problem solving, Creativity, Ability to Negotiate, Report
writing.
DUTIES : KRA’s Receive requisition from Demand Management. Verify allocations and
item descriptions. Record requisition on requisition register. Capture
information on LOGIS Record order number on order register and forward to
all suppliers.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Msiza Contact Number (012) 406 7910
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies4@dee.gov.za
POST 12/39 : SECURITY RISK OFFICER REF NO: DEE2025/007 (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321.per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matric/Grade 12 Certificate, NQF level 4 plus Grade C PSIRA Certificate. No
experience, PLUS the following key competencies: Knowledge of: Security
legislation, policies and procedures, Access control procedure, Safety
precautions and Security Registers. Skills: Problem solving skills,
Communication skills (verbal and written). Thinking Demand: Innovative and
Pro-Active thinking, Analytical mind.
DUTIES : KRA’s: Conduct access control and monitor movements within the building to
identify risk. Perform security patrols and escort duties. Operate control room
security equipment’s. Respond to alarm activations, investigate the cause and
giver feedback. Prohibit the unauthorised removal of equipment, documents
and stores from building. Monitor the movements of private and GG vehicles
in the parking area and safeguard the parking area itself.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Maila Contact Number (012) 406 7460
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies5@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Indians, Coloured, white females and males are encouraged to apply.
34
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00 (walk-in) and 23:59 (online)
NOTE : All attachments for online application must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined, in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment. Zipped and
JPEG documents will not be accepted. indicate the correct job title and the
reference number of the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct
email address associated with the post. Failure to do so, your application will
be disqualified. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be
submitted on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service
Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received
applications using the incorrect application for employment (old Z83) will not
be considered. Each post(s) advert must be accompanied by its own
application form for employment and must be fully completed, initialled and
signed by the applicant as instructed below. Failure to fully complete, initial and
sign the Z83 form will lead to disqualification of the application during the
selection process. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be
completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered and declaration signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with
detailed previous experience if any) and a completed and signed new Z83
application form is required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or
before the day of the interview following the communication from Human
Resources and such qualification(s) and other related document(s) will be in
line with the requirements of the advert. Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent
Resident Permit holders in posession of foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). The Department does not accept
applications via fax. Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received late will not be
considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the
application not being considered. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your
information will be used soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be
shared with third parties without prior consent unless required by law. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the below
advertised post(s). The successful candidate will be expected to sign a
performance agreement. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative
action employer. The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform
the employment decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender and disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/40 : TEAM LEADER REF NO: HR4/4/8/155
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kimberly
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year qualification in Labour Relations/ Labour Law/ LLB/ BCOM Law.
Two (2) years functional experience in Inspection and Enforcement Services.
35
Valid driver’s License. Knowledge: Departmental Policies and procedures,
Skills Development Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, Skills Development Levies Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act,
COIDA, SABS Codes, Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment
Insurance Contribution Act, Employment Equity Act, Immigration Act. Skills:
Facilitation skills, Planning and organizing, Computer Literacy, Interpersonal
skills, Conflict handling skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving skills,
Interviewing, Presentation, Innovative, Analytical, Verbal and written.
DUTIES : Plan and independently conduct substantive inspections with the aim of
ensuring compliance with all Labour legislations, namely, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act (BCEA), Labour Relations Acts (LRA), Employment Equity Act
(EEA), Unemployment Insurance Act (UIA), Compensation for Occupational
Injuries and Diseases Act (COID), Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) and
UI Contributions Act (UCA). Plan and execute investigations independently on
reported cases pertaining to contravention pf Labour legislations and enforce
as and when necessary, including making preparations for and appearing in
Court as a State witness. Plan and conduct allocated proactive (BLITZ)
inspections regularly to monitor compliance with Labour legislation including
compilation and consolidation of reports emanating from such inspections.
Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all Labour legislation independently,
analyze impact, therefore, consolidate and compile report. Manage the
finalization of files of cases received and investigations conducted by the
Inspectors. Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance
of regional plans and reports including executions of analysis and compilation
of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases. Ensure that
non-compliant employers are referred for prosecution within the relevant time
frames.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel: 053 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road For Attention: Human
Resources Operations, Provincial Office Kimberley Email: Jobs-
NCKIM@labour.gov.za
POST 12/41 : OHS INSPECTOR REF NO: HR4/4/8/160
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre Upington
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior Certificate plus a three (3) year tertiary qualification (NQF6) in
Environmental Health, Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronic Engineering,
Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Construction,
Biology, Microbiology, Biomedical Sciences, Biotechnology, Biochemistry. A
valid driver’s licence. Knowledge: Departmental policies and procedures,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, as amended, OHS Regulations, South
African National Standards (Codes)-incorporated Codes become regulations,
Compensation for Occupational injuries and Diseases Act, Unemployed
Insurance Act. Skills: Planning and organizing, Communication skills,
Computer Literacy, Facilitation skills, Interpersonal skills, Conflict handling
skills, Negotiation skills, Problem solving, Interviewing, Presentation,
Innovation, Analytical, Verbal and written communication.
DUTIES : To plan and independently conduct inspections with the aim of ensuring
compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Act 85 of 1993,
Regulations and incorporated Standards. Plan, investigate and finalise
independently incidents and complaints reported pertaining to the OHS Act and
other relevant regulations and enforce as and when necessary, appear in Court
as a State witness. Plan and conduct allocated proactive inspections as per
schedule to monitor compliance with the OHS and other relevant labour
legislation including compiling and consolidating reports emanating from such
inspections. Plan and conduct advocacy campaigns on all labour legislation
independently, analyse impact thereof, consolidate and compile report.
Contribute at a higher level to planning, drafting and maintenance of regional
inspection plans and reports including, execution of analysis and compilation
of consolidated statistical reports on regional and allocated cases.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Kleinsmith Tel: (053) 838 1707
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley , 8301 or
hand deliver at Laboria House, c/o Pniel & Compound Street, Kimberley Email:
Jobs-NCUPI@labour.gov.za
36
POST 12/42 : BCEA INSPECTOR (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Postmasburg- Ref No: HR4/4/8/157 (X1 Post)
Labour Centre: Kimberly- Ref No: HR4/4/8/158 (X2 Posts)
Labour Centre: Calvinia- Ref No: HR4/4/8/159 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) years relevant qualification in Labour Relations/BCOM Law/LLB. A
Valid driver’s license. Knowledge: Department policies and procedures, Skills
Development Act, Labour Relation Act, Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
Unemployment Insurance Act, Unemployment Insurance Contributions Act,
Employment Equity Act. Skills: Facilitation, Planning and Organizing (own
work), Computing (spread sheets, PowerPoint and word processing),
Interpersonal, Problem solving, Interviewing, Analytical, Communication
(Verbal and Written).
DUTIES : Conduct occupational inspections with the aim of ensuring compliance with all
labour legislations. Execute investigations on reported cases pertaining to
contravention of labour legislation and enforce where and when necessary.
Conduct proactive (Blitz) inspections regularly to monitor compliance with
labour legislation. Conduct advocacy campaigns on identified and allocated
labour legislation. Assist in drafting of inspection plans, reports and compilation
of statistics on allocated case.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Sherelda Kleinsmith Tel no: (053) 838 1517
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Provincial Operations: Private Bag X 5012, Kimberley, 8301 or
hand deliver at Cnr Compound and Pniel Road
Jobs-NCKIM@labour.gov.za (Kimberly Labour Centre)
Jobs-NCPOS@labour.gov.za (Postmasburg Labour Centre)
Jobs-NCCAL@labour.gov.za (Calvinia Labour Centre)
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resources Operations, Provincial Office Kimberley
POST 12/43 : CLIENT SERVICE OFFICER: PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICES REF NO:
HR4/4/10/02
Re-advertisement, applicants who applied previously must re-apply
SALARY : R269 499 per annum
CENTRE : Labour Centre: Kariega
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Senior Certificate. No experience required. Knowledge: policies,
procedures and guidelines, Employment Services Act, Public Service Act and
Regulations, Batho Pele Principles. Skills: Interpersonal, Telephone etiquette,
Interviewing, Computer Literacy, Communication (verbal and written),
Listening, Problem solving, Ability to interpret legislations.
DUTIES : Render registration services of work seekers on ESSA. Render registration
services of work and learning opportunities on ESSA. Refer work seekers for
Employment Counselling services. Provide administrative support with the
placement of work seekers in work and learning opportunities. Render general
administrative duties and participate in advocacy sessions as and when
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Koba Tel No: (041) 995 7047
APPLICATIONS : Deputy Director: Labour Centre Operations, 15A Chase Street Kariega 6230.
Email: Jobs- ECUHG@labour.gov.za For Attention: Deputy Director: Labour
Centre Operations.
37
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
APPLICATIONS : Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email.
CLOSING DATE : 28 April 2026, 16:00. No late application will be accepted
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, Senior
Certificate, identity document and driver’s license on or before the day of the
interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity,
affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants
from the underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s
equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence
will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be
subjected to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for
employment, including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status;
Credit worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Following the interview and technical passement for all SMS posts, the
Selection Panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
OTHER POST
38
POST 12/44 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LABOUR RELATIONS REF NO: CMS20/2026 (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Labour Relations or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of three (3) years’ experience in Labour
Relations or relevant field. Knowledge of disciplinary code and procedures,
grievance procedures, mediation and arbitration, public service legislation and
resolutions and Labour Relations Act. Understanding of the interpretation and
application of legislation, policies and resolutions. Understanding of
Programme and Project Management. Good communication skills (verbal and
written). Good interpersonal skills. Conflict resolution skills. Sound organising
and planning skills. Coordination skills. Report writing skills. Computer literacy.
Ability to work under pressure and adhere to strict deadlines.
DUTIES : Provide support, advice and facilitate the implementation of labour relations
framework in the Department through the following key performance areas:
Ensure misconduct and dispute cases are handled promptly and effectively.
Investigate cases and compile investigation reports. Draft sound charges of
misconduct. Prepare witnesses for disciplinary hearing. Represent the
department in disciplinary hearings. Represent the department in arbitrations.
Ensure the facilitation of grievance resolution. Provide advice and development
on labour relations matters. Prepare reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms I Qaqane, Tel No: (012) 399 8850
APPLICATIONS : CMS20-2026@dffe.gov.za
39
ANNEXURE G
GOVERNMENT PENSION ADMINISTRATION AGENCY
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 before 12h00 noon No late applications will be considered.
NOTE : Take Note Of The Disclaimer Mentioned On Each Advert. It is mandatory that
applications which consist of a signed Z83 and comprehensive CV be emailed
to the respective email addresses indicated on each advert. Ensure that you
use the correct inbox/email. Applications send to the incorrect inbox will be
deemed a regret. Ensure to sign your Z83 before you scan it. Please use your
signature or valid e-signature and not your name written in block/typed print. A
Z83 not signed will be deemed a regret. From 1 January 2021, a new
application for employment (Z83) form will be effective and if the old Z83 is
used, it will be deemed a regret. Should an individual wish to apply for a post
after 1 January 2021, he/she will be required to submit the new application for
employment form which can be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies or
http://www.gpaa.gov.za Requirements: Applications must be submitted on the
new form Z83 as indicate above (signed and scanned). The relevant reference
number must be quoted on all documentation and on the subject heading of
the email. An application should consist of (a) a comprehensive and detailed
CV (specifying all experience and duties, indicating the respective dates
MM/YY as well as indicating references with full contact details) and (b) a duly
completed Z83 (refer to Circular No 19 of 2022 in this regard) only. Failure to
submit the above documents will result in the application not considered and
deemed a regret. The candidate must agree to the following: Shortlisted
candidates must avail themselves for a virtual or in-person panel interview at a
date and time determined by the GPAA. Note that certain information contained
in the application (CV and Z83) may be verified through the request for official
documents and or other methods of verification and proof (when shortlisted).
The certification of all supporting documents will be expected of the shortlisted
candidates only. Applicants must note that pre-employment checks and
references will be conducted once they are short-listed and the appointment is
also subject to a positive outcome on these checks, which include but not
limited to security clearance, security vetting, qualification/study verification,
citizenship verification, financial/asset record check, previous employment
verification and criminal record. Applicants will be required to meet vetting
requirements as prescribed by Minimum Information Security Standards. It is
the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Correspondence will only be
conducted with the short- listed candidates. If you have not been contacted
within six (6) months after the closing date of this advertisement, please accept
that your application was unsuccessful. The candidate must take note of: It is
intended to promote representativeness through the filling of these posts and
the candidature of persons whose promotion/ appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference. Disabled persons are encouraged
to apply. For applications on salary levels 11 – 15, the inclusive remuneration
package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion in terms of applicable rules.
SMS will be required to undergo a Competency Assessment as prescribed by
DPSA. All candidates shortlisted for SMS positions will be required to undergo
a technical exercise that intends to test the relevant technical elements of the
job. One of the minimum requirements for SMS is the pre-entry certificate
submitted prior to appointment. For more details on the pre-entry course visit:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. All
shortlisted candidates, including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be an
Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels share score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process The
GPAA reserves the right to utilize practical exercises/tests/competency
assessments for non-SMS positions during the recruitment process
(candidates who are shortlisted will be informed accordingly) to determine the
suitability of candidates for the post(s). The GPAA reserves the right to cancel
the filling/not to fill a vacancy that was advertised during any stage of the
recruitment process. The successful candidate will have to sign and annual
performance agreement and will be required to undergo a security clearance.
40
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 12/45 : DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS OPERATIONS REF NO:
DIR/EBOPS/2026/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (all –inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant Degree /B Tech in Finance/Business Management /Bachelor of Arts
in Commerce/Management Accounting/ Accounting/ Public Management or
related field at NQF level 7 as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) Years’s
experience in middle/senior management level experience in Financial
Services, especially Employee Benefits, Pension Fund and Retirement
Benefits Administration. Computer literacy which includes a good working
knowledge of Microsoft Office products Knowledge of Benefits Administration.
Knowledge of SA Pension Fund Legislation / Industry related framework.
Knowledge of relevant Legislative requirements and GPAA policies and
procedures. Knowledge of Standard Operating Procedures. Knowledge of
Financial management including budgeting and forecasting. Knowledge of
Project Management. Knowledge of reporting procedures. Knowledge of
relevant systems. Knowledge of financial auditing. Knowledge of Pension
Administration Systems. Knowledge of Public Service Legislation and
regulations. Strategic capability. Communication (Verbal & Written) Problem
Solving Complex Issues. People Management and Empowerment. Reporting.
Change Management. Data Analysis. Conflict Management. Customer focus.
Service Excellence. Honesty & Integrity. Transparency. Courtesy. Emotional
Intelligence. Team Player. Problem Solving & analysis. Quality Oriented.
Forster high performance culture.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
not limited to the following: Manage the implementation of EB Operations
strategy: Develop and monitor the implementation of the APP for the Business
unit to support the achievement of GPAA’s strategic objectives. Manage,
monitor and review the Business unit policies, procedures and processes, in
accordance with best practice and legislation. Manage the implementation of
an effective short, medium and long-term operating strategy for the Business
unit. Conduct benchmarks on new developments in practices to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of the organisation. Manage the provision of best
practice regarding Business unit functions to all stakeholders. Manage the
implementation of a management effectiveness and leadership strategy.
Engage in strategic relationships with relevant stakeholders to serve the
interest of the organisation. Monitor compliance with relevant legislation
throughout all Business unit functions. Analyse service delivery gaps,
challenges and implement remedial action strategies. Manage quality of
service provided to internal and external customers/clients/stakeholders.
Manage the mitigation of identified risks. Optimize the achievement of service
delivery and unqualified clean audit opinion. Ensure proper implementation
and alignment to SLA. Ensure information flows and alignment with all
stakeholders to ensure effective engagement. Conduct trend analyses and
forecasts. Oversee accuracy of information captured on relevant systems.
Liaise with legal section on matter of dispute. Liaise with relevant stakeholders
to facilitate payment of benefits. Manage the implementation of new legislation
and amendments. Participate in management forums within GPAA. Manage
the processing, validation and payment of claims: Ensure assessment and
validation of claims. Ensure processing of claims. Ensure payment of claims.
Ensure management of claim exceptions. Manage the provision and
implementation of Special Projects on behalf of GEPF: Ensure management,
implementation and processing of all GEPF initiated special projects. Ensure
awareness and alignment to provisions for implementation of special projects.
Ensure collaboration with relevant internal and external stakeholders who are
custodians and drivers or partners in the roll-out of special projects. Drive the
provision of funeral benefits and Pensioner Maintenance: Ensure management
and implementation of funeral benefits to GEPF members in accordance with
legislation prescripts. Ensure maintenance, payment processing of pensioners
of the GEPF. Manage all the resources in the Directorate: Oversee the
development and management of staff within the Directorate. Implement and
maintain a relevant management approach to support effective business
results within the Directorate. Develop and sustain a culture of high
41
performance, professionalism and integrity to support overall quality of service
delivery. Oversee control of budgeting and expenditure process in-line with
strategic objectives and relevant legislation. Ensure the effective utilization of
all other resources (including IS, Assets, Infrastructure, etc) within the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Felicia Mahlaba on Tel No: (012) 319 1455
APPLICATION : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83
completed and duly signed) to Recruit1@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference
number in the subject heading of the email [failure to adhere to this will result
in decline of application/s].
NOTE : The purpose of the job is to manage the processing, validation and payment of
claims. One permanent position of Director: Employee Benefits is currently
available at the Government Pensions Administration Agency.
POST 12/46 : DIRECTOR: CRM REGIONS REF: DIR/CRM/2026/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (all –inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate relevant Degree /B-Tech in Public Relations, Communications,
Business Administration, Public Administration, Marketing or equivalent
qualification at NQF level 7 recognized by SAQA with Five 5 Years’s experience
in middle/senior management level in a Client Relationship Management
environment, Customer Services, Sales Administration. Knowledge of the
Benefit Administration. Knowledge of Relevant CRM Systems. Knowledge of
Customer Relationship Management (Channel Management). Knowledge of
Relevant legislative requirements and GPAA policies and procedures. Industry
Knowledge. Knowledge of Financial management including budgeting and
forecasting. Knowledge of Pension Fund Regulations and Rules. Knowledge
of Compliance Management. Strategic capability. Service delivery innovation.
Client. Orientation and customer focus. Financial management. People
management and empowerment. Programme and project management.
Change management. Communication. Knowledge management. Problem
solving and analysis. Respect. Service Excellence. Integrity. Transparency.
Courtesy. Emotional Intelligence. Team Player. Empathetic. Data-led decision
making
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
not limited to the following: Manage the implementation of the Operations
Revenue Management strategy: Monitor the implementation of the operational
plan for the Directorate to support the achievement of GPAA’s strategic
objectives. Manage, monitor and review the Directorate policies, procedures
and processes, in accordance with best practice and legislation. Ensure
implementation of an effective short, medium and long-term operating strategy
for the Directorate. Conduct benchmarks on new developments in practices to
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the organisation. Manage the
provision of best practice regarding Directorate functions to all stakeholders.
Ensure the implementation of a management effectiveness and leadership
strategy. Engage in strategic relationships with relevant stakeholders to serve
the interest of the organisation. Monitor compliance with relevant legislation
throughout all Directorate functions. Analyse service delivery gaps, challenges
and implement remedial action strategies. Manage quality of service provided
to internal and external customers/clients/stakeholders. Manage the mitigation
of identified risks. Ensure information flow to and alignment with all
stakeholders to ensure effective engagement. Conduct trend analyses and
forecasting. Drive employee benefits in region 1, 2, 3 and operational strategies
and policies: Provide expert advice on employee benefits and regional issues
experienced by Line in compliance with legislation, achieving unbiased
resolution. Provide consistent application of sound regional principles across
business units. Drive education of all GPAA employees in company code and
procedures, ensuring transfer of skills. Monitor the development of training and
compilation of manuals for line managers on communication procedures to
ensure that acceptable practices are followed in dealing with stakeholders.
Represent the GPAA within various Regional forums. Analyse and give
feedback on emerging trends on regional developments in order to formulate
initiatives to address any issues arising. Manage implementation of employee
capacity building initiatives, achieving agreed project milestones and adequate
communication. Ensure educational events are commemorated according to
42
the annual calendar. Manage the implementation of appropriate processes and
procedures to deal with incapacity issues. Drive implementation of awareness
campaigns, ensuring objectives are achieved. Manage the achievement of an
integrated regional communication approach. Establish and manage
relationships with all relevant stakeholders to support service delivery in the
Region: Create and build partnerships with various internal and external
stakeholders in order to enhance service delivery. Ensure that there is effective
communication between the Region and all relevant stakeholders. Ensure that
various stakeholders enquiries or complaints are directed to relevant officials
for resolution. Coordinate, support and track the resolution of various
stakeholder enquiries or complaints. Manage all the resources in the
Directorate: Oversee the development and management of staff within the
Directorate. Implement and maintain a relevant management approach to
support effective business results within the Directorate. Develop and sustain
a culture of high performance, professionalism and integrity to support overall
quality of service delivery. Oversee control of budgeting and expenditure
process in-line with strategic objectives and relevant legislation. Ensure the
effective utilization of all other resources (including IS, Assets, Infrastructure,
etc) within the Directorate
ENQUIRIES : Alletah Mashiane on Tel No: (012) 319 1218
APPLICATION : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83
completed and duly signed) to Recruit3@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference
number in the subject heading of the email [failure to adhere to this will result
in decline of application/s].
NOTE : The purpose of the role: To Ensure management of regional employer, client
and stakeholder interactions. One position of Director: CRM Regions is
currently available at Client Relationship Management Unit at the GPAA. This
position will be filled as a permanent position.
POST 12/47 : DIRECTOR: CORPORATE MONITORING AND EVALUATION REF:
DIR/M&E/2026/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (all –inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7), Bachelor’s degree/ B Tech as
recognized by SAQA; in Social Sciences /Business Management /Public
Administration, Commerce or equivalent qualification. Five (5) years’
experience in middle/senior managerial level in the monitoring and evaluation
environment. Experience in private or public sector strategy, monitoring and
evaluation reporting management. Computer literacy that would include a good
working knowledge of Microsoft Office 365 inclusive of MS SharePoint.
Experience in Financial Services environment, especially Employee Benefits,
Pension Fund and Retirement Benefits Administration, will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of Monitoring and Evaluation Systems and processes.
Knowledge of Strategic Management. Knowledge of Corporate Governance.
Knowledge of legislative requirements and GPAA policies and procedures.
Industry knowledge. Knowledge of Pension Fund Regulations and Rules.
Knowledge of Compliance management. Knowledge of the PFMA and King IV
Regulations. Knowledge of Policy formulation in public environment.
Knowledge of qualitative and quantitative methodologies. Knowledge of
Financial management including budgeting and forecasting. Strategic
capability skills. Service delivery innovation skills. Financial management skills.
People Management and empowerment skills Programme and project
management skills. Change management skills. Communication skills.
Knowledge management skills. Problem solving and analysis skills.
Stakeholder management skills. Analytical skills. Interpersonal skills. Respect.
Service Excellence. Integrity. Transparency. Courtesy. Emotional Intelligence.
Team player. Results orientated. Relationship management
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
are not limited to the following: Manage the implementation of the Monitoring,
Evaluation & Reporting strategy: Monitor the implementation of the operational
plan for the Directorates to support the achievement of GPAA’s strategic
objectives. Manage, monitor and review the Directorate policies, procedures
and processes, in accordance with best practice and legislation. Manage the
implementation of an effective short, medium and long-term operating strategy
for the Directorate. Conduct benchmarks on new developments in practices to
43
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the organization. Manage the
provision of best practice regarding Directorate functions to all stakeholders.
Manage the implementation of management effectiveness and leadership
strategy. Engage in strategic relationships with relevant stakeholders to serve
the interest of the organization. Monitor compliance with relevant legislation
throughout all Directorate functions. Analyze service delivery gaps, challenge
and implement remedial action strategies. Manage quality of service provided
to internal and external customers/clients/stakeholders. Ensure information
flow and alignment with all stakeholders to ensure effective engagement.
Conduct trend analyses and forecasts. Assess the provision of Monitoring,
Evaluation & Reporting support and advice line managers accordingly Drive a
culture of compliance with GPAA line managers and staff to ensure greater
awareness of Monitoring, Evaluation & Reporting policies and procedures.
Monitor compliance with relevant legislation throughout GPAA. Analyze service
delivery gaps and challenges, define service delivery operational measures
and targets. Oversee quality of service provided to internal and external
customers/clients/stakeholders. Manage organizational performance
monitoring and reporting for the Department: Minimize exposure to legislative
contravention by implementing policies and procedures pertaining to
Departmental performance monitoring and evaluation systems in full support
of legislative requirements. Identify priority outcomes to inform performance
management system. Manage the alignment of the department’s strategic plan
with GPAA annual plans. Facilitate the development of Annual performance
plans and annual operation plans. Manage and monitor the performance of
business units through continuous internal and external monitoring tools and
processes for business impact as well as stakeholder requirements. Analyze
organizational performance and provide strategic input. Implement and review
performance management systems. Co-ordinate and develop a report on the
collated information on organizational performance by the business units and
present in an agreed format on prescribed timelines. Partner with directors to
analyze and report on their business unit’s performance impact and decisions
across the organization. Coordinate and manage the implementation of
integrated Departmental M&E data systems: Design and maintain data
architectural integration of systems to ensure M&E data integration across the
Department. Manage data collection processes and protocols. Conduct data
analysis and integration. Ensure the accuracy and integrity of captured
information. Produce performance reports on service delivery programmes.
Develop and implement systems on behalf of different directorates e.g.
Knowledge Management. Manage the monitoring and evaluation for Regional
coordination: Monitoring all GPAA outreach events. Provide evaluation
services on Client Satisfaction Surveys. Perform trend analysis based on
Province. Produce performance reports outreach programmes. Manage all the
resources in the Directorate: Ensure the development and management of staff
within the Directorate. Implement and maintain a relevant management
approach to support effective business results within the Directorate. Develop
and sustain a culture of high performance, professionalism and integrity to
support overall quality of service delivery. Ensure control of budgeting and
expenditure process in-line with strategic objectives and relevant legislation.
Ensure the effective utilization of all resources (including IS, Assets,
Infrastructure, etc) within the Directorate. Ensure that all audit findings are
responded to and remedial action implemented. Proactively ensure the
identification and mitigation of risks
ENQUIRIES : Mapule Mahlangu on Tel No: 012 399 2639
APPLICATION : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83
completed and duly signed) to Recruit2@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference
number in the subject heading of the email [failure to adhere to this will result
in decline of application/s)
NOTE : The purpose of the job is to manage and coordinate all monitoring, evaluation
and reporting systems in the Department. One position of Director: Corporate
Monitoring and Evaluation is currently available at Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit in GPAA. This position will be filled as a permanent position.
POST 12/48 : DIRECTOR: CONTRIBUTIONS MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DIR/CONT/2026/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R1 266 714 - R1 492 122 per annum (all –inclusive package)
44
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF level 7 in Finance, Business Management, BA in
Commerce, Accounting, Public Management and/or related field, with
accounting as a major subject (3rd year level). B degree with specialized
pension certification e.g. certified employee benefits Specialist or accredited
specialist training in the field of pensions management and/or retirement
industry accreditation exams will be a distinct advantage. Five (5) years in
middle/senior management level experience in pensions
administration/management environment. Computer literacy which includes a
good working knowledge of Microsoft Office products, especially MS Excel.
Knowledge of GEPF fund rules. Knowledge of SA Pension Fund
Legislation/industry related framework. Knowledge of Public Service
Legislation and regulations (Public Service Act, PFMA). Knowledge of
Standard Operating Procedures. Knowledge of Budgeting. Knowledge of
Project Management. Knowledge of Research. Knowledge of Reporting
procedure. Knowledge of Financial Management. Knowledge of Pension
administration system. Communications skills (written and verbal). Problem
solving of complex issues skills. Reporting and Financial auditing skills.
Planning and organizing skills. Data analysis skills. Conflict management skills.
Customer focus. Accessible. Foster high performance culture.
Professionalism. Quality oriented. Attention to detail. Honesty and integrity.
Interpersonal relations. Conflict resolution. Creativity
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
are not limited to the following: Manage the implementation of the Contributions
Management unit’s strategy: Monitor the implementation of the operational
plan for the Business Unit to support the achievement of GPAA’s strategic
objectives. Manage, monitor, and review the Business Unit policies,
procedures and processes, in accordance with best practice and legislation.
Manage the implementation of an effective short, medium and long-term
operating strategy for the Business Unit. Conduct benchmark on new
developments in practices to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the
business unit. Manage the provision of best practice regarding Business Unit’s
functions to all stakeholders. Engage in strategic relationships with relevant
stakeholders to serve the interests of the organization. Monitor compliance with
relevant legislations. Analyze service delivery gaps, challenges and implement
remedial action strategies. Manage quality of service provided to internal and
external customers/clients/ stakeholders. Manage the mitigation of identified
risks. Monitor compliance with statutory deadlines for payments of and
reconciliation of contributions. Ensure compliance with relevant fund rules
legislation. Analyze service delivery gaps and challenges, define service
delivery operational measures and targets, and implement remedial action
strategies. Manage and coordinate the daily operational activities of the
business unit to ensure that it functions effectively and efficiently. Management
of query resolutions related to contribution discrepancies and other business
unit functions. Liaison with member employers and Auditors Active participation
and Liaison with the GEPF Benefit Liaison Committee in respect to benefit
administration and rule changes. Manage processing and reconciliation of
Contributions: Manage sourcing and validation of payroll datasets for electronic
contributions and payroll schedules for manual contributing employers.
Manage process to raise contributions through the FinRecon and Billing run.
Manage the enrolment of new members and the collection of contributions.
Manage updating of contributing member salary banking details for 2 pot
savings withdrawals. Facilitate accuracy of /and updating of contributions and
pensionable salary information. Manage allocation of contribution received
monthly to relevant employer and other debtor accounts. Ensure monthly
reconciliations and relevant corrections of general ledger accounts. Ensure
calculation of interests for none and late payment of contribution. Confirm
pensionable salaries upon exit where contribution warnings are raised. Admit
new participating employers to the GEPF and where required obtain approval
from the GEPF Board of Trustees to approve employer’s participating
employers to the Fund. Manage purchase of service: Ensure accurate POS
contributions installments are received monthly Ensure accurate calculation of
interest for none and late payment. Ensure monthly reconciliations of relevant
accounts and clearance of suspense accounts. Confirm POS debt upon exit.
Mange additional liabilities claims: Manage additional liabilities ensure that
data is extracted for the actuaries on a monthly basis to calculate liabilities
owing. Bill liability owing to employers. Receive, manage and reconcile
45
additional liability payments against debts owing. Raise late payment interest
on additional liabilities owing. Manage all the resources in the Directorate:
Ensure the development and management of staff within Directorate.
Implement and maintain a relevant management approach to support effective
business results with the Directorate. Develop and sustain a culture of high
performance, professionalism and integrity to support overall quality of service
delivery. Ensure control of budgeting and expenditure process in-line with
strategic objectives and relevant legislation. Ensure the effective utilization of
all other resources (including IS, Assets, Infrastructure, etc.) within the
Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mapule Mahlangu on Tel No: 012 399 2639
APPLICATION : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83
completed and duly signed) to Recruit2@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference
number in the subject heading of the email [failure to adhere to this will result
in decline of application/s)
NOTE : The purpose of the job is to manage the administration of contributions
management function within the GPAA. One permanent position of Director:
Contributions Management is currently available at the Contributions
Management Section of the GPAA.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/49 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT – CONTRACT
MANAGEMENT REF NO: DD/SCM CON/2026/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (all –inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized National Diploma / Degree in Supply Chain
Management/Logistics and Purchasing Management or equivalent (at least
360 credits), with minimum of 5- 6 years' experience in Supply Chain
Management and or Finance Management of which 3 years should be an
Assistant Director/Management role. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management
in government. Knowledge of Logistics Management. Knowledge of the PFMA
and PPPFA, Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Preferential Procurement
Regulations 2022. Knowledge of White paper on transformation of public
service. Knowledge of Batho Pele Principles. Knowledge of Labour relations
and Collective bargaining systems. Knowledge of Public Service
transformation and management issues. Knowledge of Public Service
regulations and relevant prescripts. Knowledge of departmental Policies and
Procedures. Knowledge of Public service Act. Knowledge of Minimum
Information Security Standards. Financial Management/Accounting skills.
Analytical skills. Problem solving skills. Verbal and written communication
skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint) skills. Budgeting and
Financial Management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Project
Management skills. Decision making. Diversity management. People
management. Repot writing. Result oriented. Interpersonal relationships.
Customer focus and Responsiveness. Impact and influence. Initiative taking.
Team leadership. Developing others. Managing Interpersonal conflict,
Networking and building bonds, Quality Control of Work.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
are not limited to the following: Manage Contract Management Services with
GPAA: Manage, undertake and review the monitoring, analyses and
determination of actions to ensure proper contract administration. Administer
variations to contracts. Evaluate applications for price adjustments and invoke
penalty clauses. Evaluate applications for variations, amendments and
cancellations and develop proposals for approval. Undertake dispute
resolutions and ensure that all documentation is prepared and available to
resolve disputes. Maintain proper relationship with suppliers within the code of
ethics to ensure delivery of goods/services. Manage the coordination, review
and monitoring of contract compliance: Determine whether products/services
are delivered at the right time, of the right quantity, right products, right place,
right conditions, right quality and the right price according to the contract in
consultation with contract owners. Assist End Users with timeous development
of specification reference for the sourcing of quotations and bids. Provide
administrative support to Business Units on contracts with service providers
and ensure compliance with the PFMA (Public Finance Management Act).
46
Provide support with regards to development, implementation and
maintenance of procurement policies and frameworks: Provide support
regarding the development of supply chain management policies and
strategies. Ensure that policies are in line with the organization’s strategic
objectives, Treasury Regulations and the Government BBBEE frameworks.
Identify deficiencies in policy framework, procedural guidelines and work
processes within the Supply Chain Management Unit. Design, implement and
maintain effective procurement control; systems to ensure compliance to policy
and procedures on a continuous basis. Communicate changes to policy,
procedures and work processes to staff in the business unit and train/coach
staff where required. Manage and development of Staff: Set, agree and monitor
performance of direct reports, ensure alignment with planned targets. Allocate
work according to the individual workload, expertise, and developmental needs
of the individual. Identify development and succession planning requirements.
Ensure employment equity compliance. Monitor outputs that achieve business
requirements. Facilitate staff productivity and efficiency, minimizing
absenteeism and turnover figures. Manage the budget of the unit and monitor
expenditure patterns as per the prescripts
ENQUIRIES : Mapule Mahlangu on Tel No: (012) 399 2639
APPLICATION : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83
completed and duly signed) to Recruit2@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference
number in the subject heading of the email [failure to adhere to this will result
in decline of application/s
NOTE : The purpose of the job is to develop, review, and implement a contract
administration service within the GPAA. One position of Deputy Director:
Supply Chain Management: Contract Management is currently available at
Supply Chain Management Unit in the GPAA. This position will be filled as a
permanent position.
POS 12/50 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT REF NO:
DD/SCM/2026/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (all –inclusive package)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized National Diploma / Degree in Supply Chain
Management/Logistics/Purchasing Management or equivalent (at least 360
credits), with a minimum of 5-6 years' experience in Supply Chain Management
and or Finance Management environment of which 3 years in an Assistant
Director/Management role. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management in
government. Knowledge of Logistics Management. Knowledge of the PFMA,
PPPFA, Treasury regulations and guidelines. Knowledge of Preferential
Procurement Regulations 2022. Knowledge of Medium-Term Strategic
Framework. Knowledge of White paper on transformation of public service.
Knowledge of Board Based Black Economic Empowerment Act. Knowledge of
Labour relations and collective bargaining systems. Knowledge of Public
Service Transformation and management issues. Knowledge of Public Service
Regulations and relevant prescripts. Knowledge of GPAA policies and
procedures. Knowledge of Public Service Act. Knowledge of Economic
Reporting framework. Financial Management/ Accounting skills. Analytical
skills. Problem solving skills. Verbal and written communication skills.
Computer literate (Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Budgeting and Financial
management skills. Planning and organizing skills. Project Management skills.
Decision making skills. Diversity Management skills. People -Management
skills. Report writing skills. Result oriented. Interpersonal Relationships.
Customer focus and responsiveness. Impact and Influence. Initiative-taking.
Team Leadership. Developing others. Managing Interpersonal conflict.
Networking and building bonds. Integrity
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
are not limited to the following: Provide support with regards to development,
implementation and maintenance of SCM policies and frameworks: Provide
support regarding the development of supply chain management policies and
strategies. Ensure that policies are in line with the organization’s strategic
objectives, Treasury Regulations and the Government BBBEEE frameworks.
Identify deficiencies in policy framework, procedural guidelines and work
processes within the Supply Chain Management unit. Design, implement and
maintain effective procurement control systems to ensure compliance to policy
47
and procedures on a continuous basis. Communicate changes to policy,
procedures and work processes to staff in the business unit and train/coach
staff where required. Manage tender and procurement process: Drive the
implementation of the Procurement Plan. Source tender specifications from
components and units and publish tenders. Oversee the compilation of tender
documents. Oversee allocation of tender numbers, advert dates and closing
dates. Oversee placing of publishing for tenders on e-Tender and other media
when applicable. Manage the administration of all processes related to the
monitoring of tender documents. Oversee all tender documents received for
preparation and presentation to Bid Adjudication Committee. Oversee bid
registers. Compile corporate demand plan informed by end users.
Communicate with all cost centre managers with regards to their procurement
plans. Consolidate all procurement plans for the GPAA. Assist the Bid
Specification Committee with compilation of the terms of reference and/or
specifications. Oversee the scheduling of the advertisement for close and open
of tenders. Oversee the publishing tenders. Conduct industry analysis for
specific products and devise a sourcing strategy. Conduct marketing and
industrial analysis for specialized sourcing requests. Analyse repetitive
sourcing requests and determine consolidative solutions. Manage all
resources of the unit: Set, agree and monitor performance of direct reports,
ensure alignment with planned targets. Allocate work according to the
individual workload, expertise, and developmental needs of the individual.
Identify development and succession planning requirements. Ensure
employment equity compliance. Monitor outputs that achieve business
requirements. Facilitate staff productivity and efficiency, minimizing
absenteeism and turnover figures. Manage the budget of the unit and monitor
expenditure patterns as per the prescripts
ENQUIRIES : Mapule Mahlangu on Tel No: (012) 399 2639
APPLICATION : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83
completed and duly signed) to Recruit2@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference
number in the subject heading of the email [failure to adhere to this will result
in decline of application/s
NOTE : The purpose of the job is to develop, implement, maintain and manage the
supply chain management system of goods and services within the GPAA. One
position of Deputy Director: Supply Chain Management is currently available
at Supply Chain Management Unit in the GPAA. This position will be filled as a
permanent position.
POST 12/51 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECRUITMENT REF NO: ASD/REC/2026/04-1P
Permanent
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree/National Diploma (at least 360 credits) in Human
Resource Management/ Industrial & Organisational Psychology/ Social
Sciences/ Public Administration (with at least 360 credits, NQF 6) Three (3) to
Five (5) Recruitment experience of which 2 years is junior management
experience. Computer Literacy that would include a good working knowledge
of MS Office. Knowledge of DPSA Regulations. Knowledge of Labour Relations
Act. Knowledge of Basic Conditions of Employment Act. Knowledge of
Recruitment, Selection & Placement Policy. Knowledge of conducting
Interviews. Knowledge of other Public Service Prescripts and Legislations.
Knowledge of Public Service Regulations. Knowledge of working with
Recruitment Agencies. Human Resource Policy and Procedures. Knowledge
of Screening of CV’s. Knowledge and understanding of Batho Pele Principles.
Knowledge of Data Management. Analytical skills. Project management skills.
Problem solving skills. Organizing skills. Supervisory and Leadership skills.
Advisory skills. Interpersonal relations. Conflict management. Report writing.
Customer Oriented. Ability to communicate at all levels. Good interpersonal
relationships. Building and maintaining collaborative and strong relationships.
Working in a team. Adhering to business ethics. Out of the box thinker.
Attention to detail. Adhering to business ethics. Long attention span. Ability to
prioritize urgent and confidential matters. Ability to work under pressure.
Deadline driven.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for a wide variety of tasks which include but
not limited to the following Manage all aspects of the Recruitment, which
includes the following: Manage the process of advertising positions. Manage
48
allocation of work to agencies for response handling or full service. Ensure that
shortlisting is done according to inherent requirements of position. Obtain
approval for shortlisted candidates and selection panel. Oversee compilation
of technical questions to ensure a competency-based interview. Oversee and
manage the conducting of fair and procedurally correct interviews. Oversee
and manage the process of verification of personal information prior to
appointment. Oversee and manage the drafting of submissions for approval for
appointment or edit the submissions drafted by subordinates/Agencies.
Oversee assessments of candidates – whether technical or prescribed DPSA
assessments. Oversee all account related matters to external service providers
including issuing of Purchasing Orders and following SCM prescripts. Provide
statistics, reports, and any relevant recruitment information as requested.
Implement and maintain HR policies and procedures pertaining to recruitment.
Ensure adherence to the GPAA’s processes, policies, and procedures. Ensure
adherence to GPAA’s Recruitment and Selection Policy. Ensure adherence to
Labour Law, EE, Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Public Service Act,
Public Service Regulations and DPSA Regulations. Identify best practices,
latest developments, and trends. Render technical advice regarding relevant
recruitment and selection policy and procedure. Provide advice, solutions, and
guidance. Render guidance and advice to line managers on recruitment
policies, selection requirements and suitability of candidates in the recruitment
and selection process, procedures and best practices. Manage and
Development of Staff. Manage the performance of the unit which involves
coaching, mentoring and taking corrective action where required, develop
performance standards and evaluates team and individuals. Monitor staff
regarding human resources such as leave recruitment and grievances.
Compile the work plans for the unit including the consolidation of the
operational plans into the directorate’s overall work plan.
ENQUIRIES : Felicia Mahlaba on Tel No: (012) 319 1455
APPLICATION : It is mandatory to email your application (comprehensive CV and new Z83
completed and duly signed) to Recruit1@gpaa.gov.za quoting the reference
number in the subject heading of the email [failure to adhere to this will result
in decline of application/s].
NOTE : The purpose of the role is to coordinate the end-to-end recruitment, selection,
and appointment processes in GPAA. A permanent position of Assistant
Director: Recruitment is currently available at the Government Pensions
Administration Agency (GPAA): Human Resource Administration Unit.
49
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Tshwane North TVET College)
(Maluti TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/52 : SENIOR RISK MANAGEMENT OFFICER REF: TNC/CO/26-04/1
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08) plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Recognised National Diploma (NQF 6) in Risk Management/ Internal Audit or
equivalent qualification. 3-5 years’ experience in Risk Fraud, Ethics and
Integrity Management or related field. Knowledge of the relevant prescripts,
legislation and regulations. Knowledge and understanding of the Risk Fraud,
Ethics and Integrity Management environment.
DUTIES : Ensure overall supervision and facilitate the provision of risk management
services: Identify risks at the College. Facilitate the strategic risk assessment.
Facilitate the operational risk assessment. Facilitate the process level risk
assessment. Compile risk register for strategic, operational and process level.
Provide Risk Management Report to College management and Risk
Management Committee on quarterly bases. Follow up on the implementation
of the mitigating action plans that were put in place to reduce the risk to an
acceptable level. Ensure overall supervision and facilitate the provision of fraud
and anticorruption services: Facilitate the development and maintenance of
internal anti-corruption system. Facilitate the Fraud/ Corruption risk
assessments. Conduct investigations on allegations of corruption. Ensure
overall supervision and facilitate the provision of ethics and integrity
management services: Facilitate the promotion of the implementation of code
of conduct e.g. remunerative work & gift register. Facilitate the promotion of
financial disclosure system. Ensure overall supervision and facilitate risk, fraud,
ethics and integrity management awareness and trainings: Facilitate training,
workshops and awareness on risk, fraud, ethics and integrity management.
Supervise human, physical and financial resources.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe at 012 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga at 012
401 1940.
APPLICATION : Email to seniorriskofficer@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative,
result-orientated and self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your application
and interviews will be at your own expense. Note: EE Target African male,
African female, Coloured male, Coloured female, White male, Indian male and
White female.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
50
POST 12/53 : SENIOR ASSETS OFFICER REF: TNC/CO/26-04/2
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08) plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised National Diploma/Degree in Accounting/Financial Management
(NQF Level 6) or related qualification. At least 3-5 years’ related experience.
Thorough knowledge and understanding of the public finance
legislation/policies and the Continuing Education and Training (CET) Act. A
valid driver’s licence. Must be willing to travel, work irregular hours and be
committed to meet deadlines within tight timeframes. Competencies, Abilities
And Skills: Experience in managing movable assets of an organisation.
Experience in maintaining a fixed asset register. Knowledge and understanding
of the GRAP Standards. Communication and interpersonal skills as well as
emotional intelligence. Problem solving skills. Computer literacy. Analytical and
project management skills. Ability to work independently. Decisiveness.
Accountability. Ability to plan, organise & follow up. Good monitoring and
reporting skills. Good record keeping capabilities.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate acquisition of the college’s movable assets. Maintain the college’s
fixed asset register. Contribute to the design and development of the Asset
Management System. Ensure that all assets are insured and damages to
assets are claimed on time. Ensure all assets are recorded and barcoded in
the asset register. Perform physical asset verification and submit reports.
Establish the asset management capability of the college. Monitor and review
the capturing of all physical assets in the physical asset management register.
Monitor and review the allocation of assets in accordance with the relevant
policy and procedures. Manage the capturing of asset information on the
inventory list of the asset holder. Follow up on missing assets to ensure that
they are accounted for. Manage the performance of asset verification according
to prescribed time frames. Compile reports on the state of assets for the
college. Manage the disposal process. Conduct monthly reconciliation of the
fixed asset register with the general ledger. Manage insurance of the college’s
assets. Prepare monthly, quarterly, or ad-hoc reports on assets. Liaise with
external and internal auditors. Assist in any other Supply Chain Management
responsibilities as advised by the SCM Manager. Manage the transfer of inter
divisional/delivery sites assets. Manage the improvement of operational
controls as reported on by Internal Audit. Advise staff on proper management
of assets. Ensure appropriate filing and stamping of documents. Follow asset
management procedure for all assets sent to suppliers for repairs.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe at (012) 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga at (012)
401 1940.
APPLICATION : Email to seniorassetsofficer@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative,
result-orientated and self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your application
and interviews will be at your own expense. Note: EE Target African male,
African female, Coloured male, Coloured female, White male, Indian male and
White female.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
51
POST 12/54 : SENIOR HRD PRACTITIONER REF NO: TNC/CO/26-04/3
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Level 08) plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Recognized National Diploma in Human Resource Management/Development
(NQF level 6). Relevant PERSAL Certificates will be an added advantage. A
Certificate in facilitation/ Assessor/ Moderator will be an added advantage. 3-5
years’ relevant experience in Human Resource development environment.
Knowledge and understating of the application of Public Service legislative
framework (PSA, PFMA, PSR etc.). Knowledge and understanding of
coordination and facilitation of training. Knowledge and understanding of
application of Employment Equity Act. Knowledge and understanding of PMDS
and IQMS.
DUTIES : Ensure overall supervision and that training and development programmes
plan is developed and implemented. Ensure overall supervision and that the
Work Skills Plan is developed, approved, submitted to ETDP SETA and
Implemented. Ensure overall supervision and proper implementation of
awarding bursaries in line with the college policy. Serve as the secretariat in
Employee recognition and Skills Development committees. Ensure overall
supervision and proper implementation of Internship and Learnership
programmes in line with the college policy. Ensure overall supervision and
monitor the implementation of Performance Management Development
System, Integrated Quality Management System and conduct training to
College officials. Ensure overall supervision and provide technical guidance
on the development of Job Descriptions and ensure that all officials have
signed job descriptions. Coordination of training for occupational programmes.
Ensure that conditional grants and skills development levies applications are
processed and reported. Supervise human, physical, financial and other
resources.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe at (012) 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga at (012)
401 1940.
APPLICATION : Email to seniorhrd@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative,
result-orientated and self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your application
and interviews will be at your own expense. Note: EE Target African male,
African female, Coloured male, Coloured female, White male, Indian male and
White female.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
POST 12/55 : EXAMINATION OFFICER REF NO: TNC/PC/26 – 04/4
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07) plus benefits
CENTRE : Rosslyn Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Matric certificate or NC (V) Level 4 certificate with a National Diploma/Degree
in Management Assistant / Office Administration or equivalent qualification. At
least 1 - 2 years’ experience at a TVET College or in an educational institution.
Knowledge of White Paper on PSET. Knowledge of Public TVET sector and its
52
regulatory and legislative framework. Knowledge and understanding of
TVETMIS, and ITS, TVET National Examination Policies, Government
Gazette: Conduct of Examination, DHET Punctuality Policy, Examination
requirements for Exam Centres. Sound knowledge of legislation regulating
examinations and assessments Excellent computer skills/knowledge of
Microsoft Office packages. Good leadership skills. Ability to write reports. Must
be able to work under pressure, in a team, independently and for longer hours.
Use problem-solving techniques to tactfully address queries / concerns. Ability
to perform routine tasks and meet deadlines. Effective organisational,
administration, time management, communication (verbal and written) and
planning skills. Computer literate in MS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook and
internet). A valid driver's license.
DUTIES : Updating and verification of final examination marks on the ITS System;
verification of captured final examination marks. Capture examination
enrolments on ITS System. Issuing of term mark sheets for completion and
returning back. Issuing of exam permits and preparing exam venues to be
conducive enough to run exams. Compile the daily examination reports and
submit to the Curriculum Implementation. Submit examination irregularities to
the DHET National and Examination irregularity committee. Ensure that there
is a smooth receiving, collating and dispatching of both full-time and part-time
scripts to the National Examination marking centres. Be a Distribution Point
manager during the examination period. Oversee the implementation of
DHET/College Management plans regarding examinations. Be the liaising
person between the college and DHET on all the examination related matters.
Implement the College examination related policies. Verify and declare
students qualifying for graduation to the graduation committee. Issuing of
statement of results, examination permits, certificates and diploma
applications. Timeous completion of preliminary schedule to make
amendments and send to the department for corrections. Assist with the
submission of outstanding ICASS/POE’s and keep electronic records.
Execution of examination duties according to the national Examination Policy
for National Certificate Vocational (NCV) and Report 191 (NATED). Application
for examination concessions to the DHET. Ensure the provision of examination
services; facilitate the process of invigilation training, pre-examination meeting
for students, markers and data Capturers; Establish the function of Irregularity
Committee; Ensure proper administration of the examination unit; Manage all
human, financial and other resources in the unit. Ensure record management
and reporting every examination cycle. Execution of any other duties assigned.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe at (012) 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga at (012)
401 1940.
APPLICATION : Email to examofficerrc@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative,
result-orientated and self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your application
and interviews will be at your own expense. Note: EE Target African male,
African female, White male, White female, Coloured Male, Coloured female
and Indian female.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
53
POST 12/56 : COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER REF: TNC/CO/26-04/5
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07) plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a recognised National Diploma (NQF Level
6) in Communication/ Marketing/ Public Relations or equivalent qualification.
2-3 years’ experience in Marketing and Communication environment. Valid
Driver’s Licence. Competencies: Knowledge of social media practice and
channels. Understanding of the importance of brand guidelines and applying
across a range of channels. Knowledge and understanding of stakeholder
management. Knowledge of events planning and management. Knowledge
and understanding of digital marketing. Knowledge and understanding of
website maintenance. Knowledge and understating of the application of Public
Service legislative framework. Proven computer literacy, including advanced
MSWord, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. Proven ability to effectively manage
change. The incumbent must be willing to travel, work irregular hours and be
committed to meeting deadlines within tight timeframes.
DUTIES : Provide internal and external communication services. Provide marketing,
promotions including exhibition, school visits and branding services. Provide
public relations and media liaison services. Provide photographic services and
drafting of articles. Coordinate college events and provide communication
administrative support across delivery sites. Provide and maintain the content,
design and layout of the college website. Develop visual marketing material.
Develop and produce college publications, i.e. banners, information brochures,
annual reports, pamphlets and programme information. Manage public
relations and media liaison services. Manage all media and general community
liaison and communications. Proof reading and editing of external written
publications and articles. Take a role of sub-editor of the electronic newsletter.
Track all the positive and negative stories about the college captured on social
media platforms/newspapers and forward to the relevant managers for official
responses
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe at 012 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga at 012
401 1940.
APPLICATION : Email to communicationsofficer@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative,
result-orientated and self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your application
and interviews will be at your own expense. Note: EE Target African male,
African female, White male, White female, Coloured Male, Coloured female
and Indian female.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
POST 12/57 : SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSETS OFFICER REFNO: TNC/TC/26 – 04/6
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 07) plus benefits
CENTRE : Temba campus
REQUIREMENTS : Three (3) year qualification in Accounting / Financial Management / Supply
Chain Management / Asset Management. 1-2 year’s relevant work experience
54
in the finance and related fields. Ability to plan and organize. Ability to work with
diverse team of individuals and be client oriented, Commitment and willingness
to learn. Attention to detail. Ability to work under pressure and deadline
oriented. Good knowledge of accounting principles, GRAP/ PFMA/ Treasury
Regulations. Good working knowledge of GRAP 17. Knowledge of performing
inventory counts, physical asset verification, capturing accounting transactions
and performing reconciliations. Reporting and communication skills (oral and
written). Knowledge of Accounting Computer Software (ITS, Pastel, etc.).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be expected to handle documents and
information with strict confidentiality. Responsible for asset management and
inventory control at the Campus. Assist in the procurement of College assets.
Perform supply needs assessment. Implement stores procedures and manage
Campus stores. Maintain Campus Asset Register. Control and monitor asset
disposal as per Treasury Regulations. Ensure compliance with College Policies
and other applicable legislation. Maintain assets records. Prepare
monthly/quarterly/annual assets/inventory reports. Issue and receive
assets/inventory. Ensure that all the Assets of the college are Insured. Perform
assets counts and verification on Quarterly basis. Maintain efficient stock order
levels. Ensure general upkeep of Campus stores. Manage Fleet at Campus.
Ensure that Campus vehicles are properly managed. Issue/facilitate trip
authorization forms/processes. Monitor and analyses fuel /wear and tear usage
to ensure compliance with College Policies and Procedures. Compile Monthly
Reports in relation to Fleet Management i.e. Tracker, Fuel Usage, Exception
Reports etc. Provide finance related information during Internal and External
Audits. Maintain and monitor finance related risks as identified in the College
Risk Register. Ensure safekeeping of records. Perform ad hoc Campus related
work as and when required by the Campus Management.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe at (012) 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga at (012)
401 1940.
APPLICATION : Email to assetsofficer@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative,
result-orientated and self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your application
and interviews will be at your own expense. Note: EE Target African male,
African female, White male, White female, Coloured Male, Coloured female
and Indian female.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
POST 12/58 : CAMPUS ADMINISTRATOR REF NO: MALUTITVET/LCA-013/2026
SALARY : R325 101.per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Lere La Tshepe Campus
REQUIREMENTS : National Senior Certificate/Grade 12/Standard 10 or NCV Level 4. Recognised
National Diploma (NQF 6) in Office Management and Technology/Public
Management or equivalent qualification. 2-3 years relevant experience in
Administration environment. Competencies and Attributes: Knowledge of office
administration. Knowledge of Public Service legislations and policies.
Knowledge of PSET. Knowledge and understanding of the TVET/ CET
Administration. Understanding of the Higher Education sector. Understanding
of corporate governance. Understanding Cost center budgetary, expenditure
55
and cash flow management. Employment Equity Act, Public Service
Regulations and Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act and any other related
legislation.
DUTIES : Render administrative support services. Draw up a campus enrolment plan for
both NCV and report 191. Gather departmental information and compile a
report for A-TEAM and Campus Management. Prepare reports, presentations,
and other correspondence. Arrange meetings, conferences, workshops and
other gatherings as required. Provide other secretarial support services to
campus management. Administer and coordinate human resource services.
Coordinate Leave forms and submit to central office. Coordinate PMDS
documents and submit to central office. Coordinate all relevant documentation
pertaining to disciplinary cases and grievances. Follow up and resolve all
human resource administration queries and issues emanating from campus
staff. Maintain human resource records administration. Monitor the attendance
register for staff. Coordinate the compilation of duty registers and payment for
part-time lectures. Support the implementation of college staff wellness
programme at campus level. Provide procurement services. Recommend
purchase requisitions to Campus Manager. Draft procurement memo.
Complete requisition form. Receive goods and services. Coordinate and
submit invoices to central office for processing. Verify the correctness of goods
and services supplied against the appropriate documentation. Follow-up on
campus requisitions made. Maintain a proper filing system. Maintain files for
all campus staff. Filing of all relevant documentation according to QMS
requirements and national achieve Act. Keep record of postage received from
central office and ensure that the distribution is done accordingly and register
is kept by the relevant official. Administer student registration and examination
process. Assist in the registration of students. Store student portfolios of
evidence and student records. Scan documents of students. Capture and
reconcile information for students. Ensure data exceptions and corrections.
Process the details of applications for programmes and credits. Coordinate the
student registration process. Coordinate the examination process.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Mathipe Tel No: (058) 303 1732
APPLICATION : All applications should be posted or hand delivered to Human Resource
Management: Maluti TVET College, Corporate Office, Private Bag X 33,
Bethlehem 9700 or hand delivered at Maluti TVET College: Corporate Office,
Corner High & Broster Street, Bethlehem 9700. Email applications can be
forwarded to hrrecruitment@malutitvet.co.za in pdf format and as one
attachment. Indicate the relevant reference number and job title on the subject
line.
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on a
Z83 form (effective from 01 January 2021) obtainable from any Public Service
department as well as Maluti TVET College Corporate Office or from Maluti
TVET College Official website www.malutitvet.co.za. The Z83 form must be
signed, initialed and dated. All fields of Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must
be completed in full. Section E, F, G (Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is
acceptable for applicants to indicate refer to CV or see attached. However, the
question related to conditions that prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must
be answered. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications and
other relevant documents on application but must submit the completed Z83
form and a detailed curriculum vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by a SAQA evaluation report. Immigrants should apply for work
permits before assumption of duty. Applicants who do not comply with the
abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as applications received
late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the requested documents will
result in the application not being considered. Maluti TVET College is an equal
opportunity affirmative action employer. Candidates whose appointments
promote representativity in terms of race, gender and disability will receive
preference. People with disability are encouraged to apply. NB: Please
consider your application as unsuccessful should you not be contacted within
60 days from the closing date of this advertisement. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability
56
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification and employment verification). Successful candidates may be
required to work at other places as may reasonably be required by the
Department and the College. Maluti TVET College reserves the right to
withdraw any of the mentioned advert.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2026 @16:00
POST 12/59 : SECRETARY TO THE CAMPUS MANAGER REF NO: TNC/PC/26 – 04/7
Nature of Appointment: Permanent
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (Level 05) plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria Campus
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate or equivalent plus a National Diploma in Management
Assistant/Office Administration. 1-2 years’ experience in typing and secretarial
support. Basic knowledge of financial management. Record management of
documents. Ability to communicate well with people at different levels and
backgrounds. Good telephone etiquette. Computer literacy. Sound
organizational skills. Good people skills. High level of reliability. Basic written
communication skills. Ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide secretarial/ receptionist support service to the manager. Receive
telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant manager. Ensure proper record keeping in the office of the
Campus Manager. Filing of documents for the manager and the campus where
required. Receive, record, and distribute all incoming and outgoing
correspondence. Collect all relevant documents to enable the manager to
prepare for meetings. Prepare travel claims and other payments in the office of
the Campus Manager. Arrange meetings and events for the manager and the
staff in the campus. Identify venues, invite role players, organize refreshments,
and sets up schedules for meetings and events. Arrange all logistics for
workshops. Track and process documents. Manage the office of the Campus
Manager and receive visitors. Perform any other administrative duties that will
be assigned by the Campus Manager. Compile and consolidate sectional
reports for the campus.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe at Tel No: (012) 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga
at (012) 401 1940.
APPLICATION : Email to secretarytocm@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Tshwane North TVET College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative,
result-orientated and self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will NOT be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. People with
disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your application
and interviews will be at your own expense. Note EE Target African male,
African female, White male, White female, Coloured Male, Coloured female
and Indian female.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
57
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development’s mandate is to ensure that there is
accessible justice system in our vibrant and evolving constitutional democracy. It is responsible,
amongst others, to enable Access to Justice for all, promote Constitutionalism, Rule of Law, Respect for
Human Rights; and to coordinate the State Litigation and Legal Advisory Services. The Department is
therefore presenting an opportunity to dynamic individuals with relevant competencies to join a dynamic
team in its quest to fulfill its mandate and deliver justice services to the people of South Africa.
CLOSING DATE : 28 April 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu or alternatively the address specified
in each post. The application must include only completed and signed new
Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the internet at
www.gov.za, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of Identity
Document, Senior Certificate and the highest required qualification as well as
a driver’s license where necessary, will only be submitted by shortlisted
candidates to HR on or before the day of the interview date. Application that do
not comply with the above specifications will not be considered and will be
disqualified. It remains the responsibility of an applicant to ensure that
application reaches the department noting different options provided for
submission. Applicants who wish to post their application forms are
encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the current post office
challenges. A SAQA evaluation report must accompany foreign qualifications.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. A pre-entry certificate
obtained from National School of Government (NSG) is required before
appointment for all SMS positions. Candidate will complete a financial
disclosure form and also be required to undergo a security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holder must provide the Police Clearance
certificate from country of origin only when shortlisted. The DOJ&CD is an
equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts the objectives of
section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of
1996), the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the Employment
Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human Resources policies
of the Department will be taken into consideration. Reasonable
accommodation shall be applied for People with Disabilities including where
driver’s license is a requirement. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed
candidates only. If you do not hear from us within 3 months of this
advertisement, please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The
department reserves the right not to fill these positions. Women and people
with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference will be given to the EE
Target.
ERRATUM: Kindly note the 2 posts of Office Managers based at Centre: State
Attorney: Port Elizabeth, Ref No: 60/26EC (X1 Post) and State Attorney:
Mthatha, Ref No: 61/26EC (X1 Post) advertised in the Public Service Vacancy
Circular 11 of 2026 dated 27 March 2026 with the closing date of 17 April 2026
was advertised with the incorrect Salary level 10, the correct Salary level
should be R468 459 – R551 823. We apologize for any inconvenience caused.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/60 : COURT MANAGER REF NO: 26/21/FS
SALARY : R582 444 – R686 091 per annum. The successful candidates will be required
to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Ficksburg
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate National Diploma/Degree qualification (NQF level 6) as
recognized by SAQA in Public Administration /Management/Law/Legal studies
or field of study or equivalent legal qualification; A minimum of 3 years’
experience in court management environment of which 2 years should be as a
supervisor or team leader; Knowledge and experience in office and district
administration; Knowledge of the Public Financial Management Act (PFMA);
Experience in managing Trust (Third Party Funds) and Vote Accounts; A valid
driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Applied strategic thinking; Computer
58
literacy; Budgeting and financial management; Communication and
information management; Continuous improvement; Citizen focus and
responsiveness; Developing others; Diversity management; Planning and
organizing; Problem solving; Project management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Coordinate and manage the financial, human
resource, risk and security in the court; Manage the strategic and business
planning processes; Manage the facility, physical resources, information and
communication related to courts; Lead and manage the transformation of the
office; Compile an analyse court statistics to show performance and trends;
Support case flow management at the court; Compile annual performance and
statutory reports to the relevant users; Develop and implement customer
service improvements strategies; Manage service level agreements.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. N Dywili Tel No: 073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director HR, Private Bag X20578,
Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver to Physical Address: 108 St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein, 9300 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 12/61 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 - R467 790 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Koffiefontein, Ref No: 26/17/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Harrismith, Ref No: 26/18/FS (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Three-year National Diploma/ Bachelor Degree in Public Administration/ Public
Management or equivalent; Three (3) years administration experience;
Knowledge of Human Resource Management, Supply Chain Management and
Risk Management; Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act, Knowledge
of Financial Management (Vote and Trust Account); Departmental Financial
Instructions, BAS and Justice Yellow Pages; Knowledge of Case Flow
Management will be an added advantage. Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy (Microsoft packages); Organizing and problem-solving skills; Sound
leadership and management skills; Good interpersonal relations; People
management.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the financial and Human Resources of the
section; Manage the Criminal and Civil administration sections; Manage the
Family Law sections.; Manage Third Party Funds, Vote Accounts and Supply
Chain Management for the office; Manage and administer support services to
Case Flow Management and other court users.
ENQUIRIES : Ms NM Dywili Tel No: 073 775 0709
APPLICATIONS : Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource, Private Bag
X 20578, Bloemfontein 9300 No 108 St Andrew Street, Bloemfontein or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 12/62 : ASSISTANT MASTER (GR 3-MR 5) REF NO: 2026/13/MP
(This is a re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged
to re-apply)
SALARY : R324 579 – R1 111 323 per annum. (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Master of The High Court: Nelspruit
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or four years recognized legal qualification. At least two (2) years’
appropriate post qualification legal experience; Knowledge of the
Administration of Estates Act, Compliance Act, Mental Health Act, Insolvency
Act, Companies Act, Registration trusts Act, Curatorship’s Act. Trust Property
Control Act and other relevant legislation; Administration of the guardian’s fund
Act, Experience in the functional field and services provided by Master’s of the
High Court. Skills and Competencies: Estate duties; Case flow management;
Trust; Administration of estates; Legal research and drafting; Planning and
organizing; Dispute Resolution; Time management; Communication skills;
Ability to work under pressure and independently in a highly pressurized
environment.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Manage the administration of guardian’s funds and
operations; Manage the administration of deceased estate; Manage the
administration of insolvent estate; Manage administration of trust and
curatorship’s; Administration of service points operations; Manage human,
finance and other resources.
59
ENQUIRIES : Ms NC Maseko Tel No: 083 284 9056
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X 11249, 24 Brown Street, Nedbank centre ,4th
floor building, Nelspruit 1200 or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 12/63 : FAMILY COUNSELLOR/ SOCIAL WORKER: GRADE 1- 4 REF NO:
26/VA16/NW
SALARY : R325 200 – R725 754 per annum (Salary will be in accordance with OSD
determination). The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Office of the family advocate – NW
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s Degree in Social Workers or equivalent qualification, Appropriate
experience in Social Worker after registration as Social Worker with the
SACSSP. Registration with SA Council for Social Service Profession
(SACSSP), Knowledge and experience in Mediating, Court experience in
rendering expert evidence; Knowledge and application of Family Law, including
Mediation in certain Divorce Matters Act. Children’s Act, Maintenance Act and
Domestic Act (inclusive of Hague Convention on International Child Abduction);
A valid driver’s license and willing to travel extensively within the province.
Skills and Competencies: Communication (written and verbal) skills, Computer
literacy (MS Word), Mediation and interviewing skills; Conflict resolution,
evaluation and report writing skills; Diversity and attention to details.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Conduct inquiries to ascertain the best interest of the
minor children involved by means of mediation and /or evaluation as per
relevant legislation; Evaluate information and compile forensic court reports;
Act as expert witness for the Family Advocate in Court; Ensure proper case
flow administration, Travel to townships and rural areas to conduct enquires,
interview parties and source references in Family Law disputes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735, or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng. 2745 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POST 12/64 : SENIOR COURT INTERPRETER (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Welkom, Ref No: 26/20/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate office: Bafokeng, Ref No: 26/14/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate office: Potchefstroom, Ref No: 26/15/NW (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 and National Diploma: Legal Interpreting at NQF 5 or any other
relevant tertiary qualification in the field of languages at NQF 5 and minimum
of three years’ practical experience in court interpreting or Grade 12 with ten
years’ practical experience in court interpreting; Proficiency in English and two
or more indigenous languages; A valid driver’s license: Language Proficiency:
Welkom: English, IsiXhosa, Afrikaans and Sesotho. North West: Setswana,
Afrikaans, IsiZulu, IsiXhosa or English. The following will serve as an added
advantage: Ability to interpret in sign language and foreign language. Skills and
Competences: Excellent communication, Listening, Inter-personal relations,
Problem solving, Planning and organising and Analytical thinking skills. Time
management; Confidentiality and ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court
and Quasi Proceedings; Interpret during consultation; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of Magistrate/ Prosecutors; Make arrangements for foreign
language interpreters in consultation with the prosecutors; Perform Specific
line and administrative support functions; Assist with capturing on ICMS;
Supervise Court Interpreters.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms NM Dywili Tel No: 073 775 0709
North West: Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Free State: Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource,
Private Bag X 20578, Bloemfontein 9300 or hand deliver it at 108 St Andrew
Street, Bloemfontein or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application
to:The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735, or hand deliver
60
it at 22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng. 2745 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 12/65 : MAINTENANCE INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 26/VA19/NW
SALARY : R325 101 – R382 959 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Delareyville Magistrate Court
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 certificate or equivalent qualification; Relevant administrative
experience in family law matters; Knowledge of the Maintenance Act (Act of 99
of 1989). Skills and Competencies: Good communication skills (verbal and
written); Computer literacy (MS Office); Good interpersonal relations; Ability to
work under pressure and to solve problems; Time Management; Documents
management and filling.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Serve maintenance summons, subpoenas, warrants
and garnishee orders for District in terms of the Maintenance Act; Locate
whereabouts of persons; Give testimony in Court under oath; Render
administrative support to the Office.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
POSTS 12/66 : COURT INTERPRETER (X5 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Bethlehem, Ref No: 26/19/FS (X1 Post)
Mmabatho Regional Court, Groot – Marico) Ref No: 26/VA18/NW (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Mossel Bay, Ref No: 28/2026/WC) (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Kuilsriver (Bluedowns), Ref No: 29/2026/WC (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Worcester, Ref No: 30/2026/WC (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 4/ Grade 12; Proficiency in English and one or more indigenous
languages. Language Proficiency, Bethlehem: IsiZulu, Sesotho, English and
Afrikaans. Mmabatho: Setswana, Afrikaans, IsiZulu or IsiXhosa or English The
following will serve as an added advantage: Three months Practical
experience; Driver’s license; Ability to interpret in sign language and or foreign
language; Applicants will be subjected to language test. Skills and
Competencies: Communication (verbal and written), Listening, Inter-personal
relations, Computer literacy (MS word), Planning and organizing, Problem
solving and analytical thinking skills; Time management; Confidentiality; Ability
to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Interpret in Criminal Court, Civil Court, Labour Court,
quasi – judicial proceedings; Interpret during consultations; Translate legal
documents and exhibits; Record cases in criminal record book; Draw case
records on request of the Magistrate and Prosecutors; Keep records of
statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms N Dywili Tel No: 073 775 0709
North West: Ms. L Shoai Tel No: (018) 397 7088
Western Cape: Ms P Paraffin Tel No: (021) 462 5471
APPLICATIONS : Free State: Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource,
Private Bag X 20578, Bloemfontein 9300 No 108 St Andrew Street,
Bloemfontein or Https://Forms.Office.Com/R/X2xavpaswu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
Https://Forms.Office.Com/R/X2xavpaswu
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X 9171, Cape Town, 8000 OR physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, CAPE TOWN OR
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention: Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
61
POST 12/67 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum. The successful candidate will be required to
sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Magistrate Office: Warden, Ref No: 26/16/FS (X1 Post)
Magistrate Office: Wolmaransstad, Ref No: 26/VA17/NW (X1 Post)
Office of the Family Advocate: Cape Town, Ref No: 26/2026/FA/WC (X2 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Computer
literacy (MS Office); Administrative and Organizational skills; Ability to work
under pressure; Good interpersonal relations; Customer service; Document
management and filing.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Render clerical support services; Provide supply
chain clerical support services within the component; Provide personnel
administration support within the component; Provide financial administration
support services in the component; Provide various administrative duties.
ENQUIRIES : Free State: Ms N Dywili Tel No: 073 775 0709
North West: Ms. L Shoaii Tel No: (018) 397 7088
APPLICATIONS : Free State Please direct your applications to: The Director: Human Resource,
Private Bag X 20578, BLOEMFONTEIN 9300 No 108 St Andrew Street,
BLOEMFONTEIN or https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
North West: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
The Provincial Head, Private Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735 or hand deliver it at
22 Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu
Western Cape: Please direct your applications to: Provincial Head: Private
Bag X 9171, CAPE TOWN, 8000 or physical address: 8 Riebeeck Street, 5th
Floor Norton Rose House, Cape Town or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu For Attention: Ms P Paraffin
NOTE : Separate application must be made quoting the relevant reference number.
POST 12/68 : ADMINISTRATION /CRT CLERK REF NO:10/26/NC/OLI
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum per annum. The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE Magistrate Office: Olifantshoek
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 or equivalent qualification. Skills and Competencies: Good
communication (written and verbal) skills; Computer literacy (MS Office); Good
interpersonal relations; Interpersonal relations; Efficient and resourceful; Ability
to work under pressure and to solve problems; Customer service; Document
management; Planning and organizations skills; Accuracy and attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: Prepare recordings of court proceedings; Render
clerical and administrative functions; file/store and ensure safekeeping of court
documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr N. Leshage Tel No: (053) 802 1300
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to: The
Provincial Head: Justice and Constitutional Development, Private Bag X6106,
Kimberley, 8300. OR hand delivers at the New Public Buildings, (Magistrates
Court) of Knight and Stead Streets, 7th floor, Kimberley, 8301 or
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu Applicants who wish to post their
application forms are encouraged to utilize courier services in light of the
current postal challenges. NB: Applicants will be subjected to a practical
/technical test
62
ANNEXURE J
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : Eastern Cape/Mthatha: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Postal Address:
Private Bag X13012, Cambridge 5206, East London. Applications can also be
hand delivered to 59 Western Avenue, Sanlam Park Building, 2nd Floor,
Vincent 5242, East London.
North West/Mmabatho: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The OCJ Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private
Bag X2033, Mmabatho, 2735. Applications can also be hand delivered to 22
Molopo Road, Ayob Gardens, Mafikeng.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an
additional criterion in the interview process. All shortlisted candidates for SMS
posts will be subjected to a technical competency exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidates to attend generic
managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS competency
assessment tools. Applicants could be required to provide consent for access
to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment for SMS, a candidate
would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme: Pre-entry Certificate
to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA which is an online
course, endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is
available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into the SMS and the
full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will unfortunately not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, reference checks and employment verification).
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
63
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office the Chief
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA); Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/69 : ACCOUNTING CLERK, REF NO: 2026/01/OCJ
SALARY : R228 321 – R268 950 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Northwest Provincial Services Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification. No previous experience required. A valid driver’s license will serve
as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-entry
practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of Public Service Prescripts, knowledge of
relevant legislation and regulations including the PFMA and Treasury
Regulations, knowledge of the Public Service Act, knowledge of PERSAL,
knowledge and practical experience of Transversal Systems BAS and LOGIS
and Batho Pele Principles, computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel). good
communication skills. financial management, interpersonal skills, planning,
organizing and problem-solving skills, decision making skills, analytical skills
and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Capture and administer payments to creditors, administer payroll and salary
related claims, capture petty cash, compile expenditure reports (invoice &
payment register, fleet recons and RT5-rendering of courier services reports.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr O Sebapatso Tel No: (018) 397 7004/ 7000
HR Related Enquiries: Ms L Makula Tel No: (018) 397 7064
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/01/OCJ @judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goals.
POST 12/70 : TYPIST REF NO: 2026/02/OCJ
SALARY : R193 359 – R227 766 per annum (Level 04). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Eastern Cape Division Of The High Court: Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent
qualification. A minimum typing speed of 35 wpm. A valid Driver’s license will
serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake a pre-
entry practical exercise as part of the assessment method to determine the
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements.
Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of the legal terminology, court procedures,
rules and environment, counter services, filing system, understanding of
legislative governing the Public Service (Batho Pele & PSR), knowledge of
Batho Pele Principles, computer literacy (MS Word), good communication skills
(written and verbal), good interpersonal relations, planning and organisation
skills, good problem-solving skills, accuracy and attention to detail, ability to
work under pressure, good time keeping and telephone etiquette.
DUTIES : Typing of appeals, reviews, reports, minutes, circulars, notice of set downs,
witness statements, taxing master reports, affidavits, memorandums and court
orders. Relief administrative personnel where necessary. Filling, opening files
and making appointments. Dealing with public queries and other administrative
duties. Compile term roll, week roll and un/opposed motion roll and maintain
registers. Compile and submit relevant orders and judgments to relevant
stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Technical/HR Related Enquiries: Mr S Mponzo Tel No: (043) 726 5217
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email at 2026/02/OCJ @judiciary.org.za
64
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with Employment
Equity goal
65
ANNEXURE K
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The Department of Small Business Development is an equal opportunity & affirmative action employer. It
is the DSBD’s intention to promote representativity (race, gender, youth & disability). The candidature of
persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity will receive preference
CLOSING DATE : 04 May 2026 at 16h00. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications can be submitted by email to the relevant email and by quoting
the relevant reference number provided on the subject line. Acceptable formats
for submission of documents are limited to MS Word, PDF. Applications must
quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully completed and
signed Z83 form and a recent comprehensive CV. Submission of copies of
qualifications, Identity document, and any other relevant documents will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All non-SA citizens will be required to
submit proof of permanent residence in South Africa when shortlisted.
Personnel suitability checks will be done during the selection process.
Applicants could be required to provide consent for access to their social media
accounts. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you
have not been contacted within 1 month of the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. In the
pursuit of diversity and redress, appointments will be made in line with the
DSBD EE Plan. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
successful candidate will be required to sign a performance agreement within
three months of appointment, as well as complete a financial interest
declaration form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. The
Department reserves the right not to fill or withdraw any advertised post. Note:
a new application for employment (Z83) form is applicable from 01 January
2021. The new form can be downloaded online at
http://www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/71 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: DESIGNATED GROUPS AND PRIORITY
SECTORS “REF NO: ASD: DG&PS
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) in Public Administration / Public
Management /Business Management /Social / Human Science / Psychology/
Gender Studies / Youth Studies or equivalent / related as recognised by SAQA.
Minimum of 3 years’ experience in monitoring and evaluation of designated
groups (Women, Youth, and Persons with disabilities). Computer Literacy,
Certificate in Monitoring and Evaluation and Certificate in Project Management.
Have proven competencies in: Communication (Verbal and Written), Problem
solving and data analysis skills, Planning and Organising Skills, Report writing
skills, Project management skills, Performance reporting and Monitoring skills,
Interpersonal skills, Stakeholder relations and Negotiation skills.
DUTIES : Provide inputs towards the development of measurable indicators on
designated groups, monitor implementation and report on performance in
respect of the designated groups (Women, Youth, and Persons with
Disabilities) and their participation in the priority sectors. Develop a draft data
management procedure for the acquisition of information for timeous reporting
and validation purposes. Gather data and provide a preliminary assessment of
the department’s performance and progress towards achievements of its set
five-year targets of the designated groups including baseline data gathering.
Conduct preliminary midterm and end-of-term assessments of the
department’s performance and progress towards achieving its set five-year
targets of the designated groups. Coordinate reporting and feedback session
on performance in respect of designated groups with internal stakeholders.
Provide inputs towards the development of corrective action plans in relation
to the designated groups. Communicate with stakeholders, clients,
66
management & colleagues: Written, Verbal and formal presentations /
workshops / information sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097
APPLICATIONS : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment3@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF
NO: ASD: DG&PS’’
POST 12/72 : OFFICER: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS: “REF NO: OIGR
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) in Public Administration / Political Science /
Development Studies or equivalent / related as recognised by SAQA.
Undergraduate qualification (NQF7) in Public Administration / Political Science
/ Development Studies or equivalent / related as recognised by SAQA will be
considered an added advantage. 1 Year experience in Intergovernmental
Relations, Public Sector Coordination, Policy Support or a related environment.
Training in Computer literacy. Have proven competencies: Communication
(Verbal and Written), Problem-Solving and analytical skills, Planning and
Organising Skills, Interpersonal skills and stakeholder relationship
management, data collection, analysis and interpretation, Negotiation and
facilitation skills, diplomacy and professional judgement and Project and
Programme support skills.
DUTIES : Provide Intergovernmental Coordination and Support Service inclusive of but
not limited to: Providing operational and administrative support to Department
of Small Business Development hosted Intergovernmental Relations
structures, assisting with tracking commitments, resolutions and action items
arising from Intergovernmental Relations platforms etc. Conduct desktop
research on Intergovernmental Relations frameworks and practices. Provide
support during the development and updating of Intergovernmental Relations
related Standard Operating Procedures, reporting templates and tools. Collect,
compile and consolidate information on the status of MSME support initiatives
across all spheres of government. Maintain records and evidence to support
reporting, monitoring and audit requirements. Provide general administrative
support to the Intergovernmental Relations Directorate inclusive of but not
limited to: Minute taking during meetings and stakeholder engagements,
compilation of meeting packs, agendas and resolutions and logistical
coordination for meetings, workshops and events. Communicate with
stakeholders, clients, management & colleagues: Written, Verbal and formal
presentations / workshops / information sessions. Assist with organising and
coordinating stakeholder engagements, information sessions and outreach
activities.
ENQUIRIES : Enquiries for all advertised posts should be directed to the recruitment office
on Tel No: (012) 394-5286/3097
APPLICATIONS : The Department of Small Business Development is committed to the pursuit of
diversity and redress. Candidates must submit applications to
recruitment4@dsbd.gov.za and quote the reference number for the
abovementioned position on the subject line (email) when applying, i.e., “REF
NO: OIGR”
67
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 by 16:30 (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted
on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to the
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C, and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to
their CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous
experience, if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form are
required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following the communication from Human Resources, and such
qualifications (s) and other related documents (s) will be in line with the
requirements of the advert. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not
comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Some of the interviewed candidates
for Senior Management level vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day
competency assessment that will test generic competencies. Appointment
validity will be conditional to signing of the employment contract, performance
agreement, and annual financial disclosure, and must attain a security
clearance (vetting) applicable to the post. The Department reserves the right
not to make an appointment. You are consenting to the Department of Tourism
processing your personal information, subject to POPIA, by applying for this
post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/73 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TOURISM B-BBEE CODES REF NO: DT 21/2026
SALARY : R1 059 105 per annum (Level 12) (all-inclusive remuneration package
consisting of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured
according to the MMS dispensation).
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF 7 qualification in Tourism Management/ Public
Management/ Business Management/ Policy Development/ Development
Studies/ Economics. A post graduate qualification will be an added advantage.
Five (5) years’ relevant working experience in the field of Research/ Policy
Implementation and monitoring within the Tourism Sector/ Broad-Based Black
68
Economic Empowerment/ Economic Cluster, of which three (3) years must be
at supervisory/ management (ASD) level. The candidate must have an
understanding of transformation policy and its imperatives; knowledge of
tourism environment, B-BBEE, research and statistical analysis; B-BBEE
verification or auditing, and knowledge of funding models, incentives, grants,
concessions and other levers to advance economic transformation. Policy
development skills. Policy advocacy skills. Monitoring and Evaluation skills.
Project Management skills. Knowledge of amended B-BBEE Act 46 of 2013.
Knowledge of Tourism Act No. 3 of 2014. Knowledge of Employment Equity
Act, No 55 of 1998. Knowledge of the Revised National Tourism Sector
Strategy. Knowledge of the Amended Generic Codes of Good Practice and the
Amended Tourism B-BBEE Sector Code. A valid driver’s licence (Persons with
disabilities that prevent them from driving will be considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for developing Tourism B-BBEE
Sector Code in line with the Generic Codes of Good Practice of the Department
of Trade, Industry & Competition, verifying the Department of Tourism for
compliance with B-BBEE, developing Tourism B-BBEE Portal to monitor the
implementation of the Tourism B-BBEE Sector Codes, developing reports on
the implementation of the Tourism B-BBEE Sector Code and state of
transformation in the tourism sector; developing Terms of Reference to outline
the scope of research work on the extent of transformation in the tourism
sector; conducting a survey in the tourism sector to collect quantitative
information/ data from a sample of the population; developing research reports
on the extent of transformation in the tourism sector; developing
implementation and verification guidelines on Tourism B-BBEE Sector Codes;
developing a simplified guide on Tourism B-BBEE Sector Codes; developing
guidelines on empowerment opportunities and initiatives; developing B-BBEE
reporting framework for public institutions in the sector; coordinating and
consolidating reports on B-BBEE initiatives implemented by public institutions
in the sector; developing annual report on B-BBEE initiatives implemented by
public institutions in the sector; developing annual report on implementation of
tourism B-BBEE Sector Code by tourism enterprises.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mankge, Tel. (012) 444 6569
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2126@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 12/74 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL SERVICES REF NO (DT
22/2026)
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate three-year qualification in Transport Management or relevant
NQF 6 qualification. Five years’ working experience in transport and travel
management in the public service of which three years must be at Assistant
Director level. Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management
prescripts. Knowledge of National Road and Traffic Management prescripts.
Knowledge of transport management prescripts. Knowledge of procurement
policies. Knowledge of the Public Service Act and Regulations. Computer
literacy. Good leadership skills. Good financial management skills. Good
presentation skills. Good planning and organising skills. Effective written and
verbal communication skills. Ability to make decisions. Good negotiation skills.
A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for drafting fleet management
procedures; developing and monitoring fleet management database; ensuring
maintenance of departmental vehicles; conducting fleet analysis and preparing
recommendations; managing the receiving of travel requests; ensuring that all
travel requests are in line with procedures and prescripts; providing advice on
travel destinations to internal clients; negotiating accommodation and car
rental rates; monitoring compliance to corporate agreements; compiling
booking analysis reports and preparing recommendations; ensuring proper
filing of all travel documents; receiving invoices from all travel and transport
suppliers; monitoring refunds emanating from cancellations relating to travel
69
and accommodation; compiling reports on fruitless and wasteful expenditure;
verifying all payment advices prior to submission to Finance for payment;
advising line managers on travel expenditure trends; receiving and analysing
credit card statements and reconciling with received invoices; verifying
commitment reports; assessing applications for subsided vehicles and
preparing recommendations; compiling usage reports; conducting inspections
on all vehicles; verifying claims before submitting to Finance for payments;
analysing the accident reports received from SAPS and preparing investigation
reports; ensuring all the incident reports on loss or damage case are received
from officials; conducting investigations on all fuel fraud, misuse and abuse of
vehicles; managing investigations of all losses and damages to Ministerial,
hired and GG vehicles and reviewing recommendations to FIMICO; managing
risk which includes insurance, disposal, abuse/misuse and relief vehicles;
managing identified risks and ensuring that mitigation measures are in place
to accomplish objectives through planning and forecasting; ensuring
compliance to agreements by service providers; facilitating performance
review meetings with service providers; monitoring the usage and allocation of
services as per signed corporate agreements; facilitating meetings with service
providers to review expenditure trends.
ENQUIRIES : Ms O Sekgweleo Tel. (012) 444 6773
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2226@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 12/75 : REGISTRY CLERK REF NO: DT 23/2026
SALARY : R228 321.per annum (level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate. Familiarity with the filing of documents, handling of
parcels, files and other related items. Knowledge of the National Archives and
Record Services Act 43 of 1996 as Amended. Knowledge of the Postal
Services Act 124 of 1998. Knowledge of the Electronic Communication Act 36
of 2005. Knowledge of the Public Service Act, 1994. Knowledge of Public
Service Regulations of 2016. Good organising and planning skills. Good
communication skills. Problem-solving skills. Time management skills. Ability
to capture data and pay attention to details. Familiarity with office equipment’s
and applicable technologies.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for opening and closing files
according to the prescripts and applicable policy; issuing and receiving back
files from HRM and other units; searching of files in the different units;
registering of outgoing files in the control register; auditing of files; receiving
outgoing courier letters and parcels from officials and sending them out;
receiving incoming courier letters and parcels for internal distribution; updating
register for outgoing courier letters and parcels; updating register for incoming
courier mail and parcels; handling all courier related enquiries on behalf of
officials of the Department; acting as a liaison officer between the department
and courier companies; sorting, opening and stamping of incoming mails;
franking of outgoing mails; dispatching of outgoing mails; registering of
incoming registered mails.
ENQUIRIES Mr M Tlhako, Tel. (012) 444 6096
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2326@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 22/76 : HANDYMAN REF NO: DT 24/2026
SALARY : R163 680.per annum (level 03)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A ABET level 04 or equivalent qualification. Knowledge of basic maintenance
ie, plumbing, carpentry and electrical. Knowledge of OHS. Knowledge of the
National building regulations. Ability to work under pressure. Good
communication skills (verbal and written). Ability to work in a team. Ability to
work under pressure. Ability to take initiative.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for attending to minor electrical,
plumbing and carpentry problems; conducting inspections in and around the
building and reporting to supervisor; assisting with developing building
maintenance schedules; logging maintenance calls for repairs; assisting with
70
installations that requires wall mounting; repairing broken equipment;
safekeeping of maintenance tools and equipment; conducting monthly stock
taking of maintenance suppliers and submitting reports; conducting monthly
OHS inspections and reporting to the supervisor. assisting with OHS
compliance in the building by offering maintenance support; monitoring
contractors on the site to ensure compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Mello, Tel. (012) 444 6625
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2426@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 12/77 : CLEANER REF NO: DT 25 /2026
SALARY : R138 486.per annum (level 02)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Abet level 4 Certificate. Basic Knowledge of facilities, occupational health and
Safety regulations. Good communication skills. Writing skills. Interpersonal
skills. Basic Computer skills. Familiar with cleaning procedures.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for dusting and polishing of the
office furniture; cleaning the blinds; glass doors; emptying and washing the
dustbins and replacing the bin liners; sweeping and mopping the floors;
reporting on broken cleaning machines and equipment; replacing toilet papers
and handtowels, refilling hand wash liquid soaps; emptying and washing waste
bins; cleaning mirrors and wall tiles, sweeping and mopping toilet floors;
cleaning mirrors and wall tiles; removing refuse from public areas; cleaning the
reception are, all entrances, stairs, corridors, lifts and lift lobbies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Selamolela, Tel. (012) 444 6776
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment2526@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : EE Requirements: Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth
and People with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
71
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the online link
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za Other related documentation such as copies of
qualifications, identity document, driver’s license etc need not to accompany
the application when applying for a post as such documentation must only be
produced by shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA
circular 19 of 2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or
occupational registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be
completed as these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or
disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No
late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates
pertaining to Senior Management Services (SMS) posts will be subjected to a
technical and competency assessment and a pre-entry certificate obtained
from the National School of government is required prior to the appointment.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates will be required
to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security clearance.
Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police clearance
certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The Department of
Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts,
the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996
(Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as defined by the
Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 12/78 : DIRECTOR: WATER USE AUTHORIZATION REF NO: MTCMA06
Branch: Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency Division:
Water Use Authorization
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Natural Sciences (Hydrology/Ecology/ Zoology/
Botany/ Chemistry/Microbiology etc) B Tech Degree in Environmental
Management or a relevant NQF level 7 Qualification. Six (6) to (10) years’
experience in Water Use Authorization of which five (5) years’ experience must
be at a middle / senior managerial level in water resource management
environment. The disclosure of a Valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge
of business and management principles. Knowledge of strategic planning,
resource allocation, finance and human resources. Knowledge of National
Water Act. Knowledge of associated environmental legislation. Knowledge of
Public Service Act and Regulations. Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act. Knowledge of Project and Programme Management.
Problem and solving and analysis.
DUTIES : Lead the Water Use Authorization and registration Unit of the CMA. Develop
and implement policies. Oversee the full water use authorization process
(water use licenses, general authorisations, existing lawful use). Ensure lawful
decision-making on applications in line with Section 21 water uses (e.g.
abstractions, storage, discharge etc). Manage issuing, renewal and
suspension of licenses. Ensure equitable allocation of water resources.
72
Develop strategies for the implementation of water use authorization and
registration processes. Develop implementation plans for the strategies.
Monitor progress regarding implementation of strategies. Provide strategic
direction in water use license administration process. Develop implementation
policies. Develop strategies for the implementation of water use license
administration processes. Develop implementation plans for the strategies.
Ensure the operation of water authorization and registration management
system. Ensure system remains stable and operational. Report system
operations to management. Request system refinement as needed. Monitor
system quality. The provision of business planning and general management
of the unit. Human Resources Planning and Management. Financial Planning
and Management. Business planning. Advise the CEO and Board on
regulatory and licensing matters. Contribute to integrated water resources
management planning. Responsible for speech-writing and Ministerial
submissions as required. Deliver technical and other presentations, as required
to a variety of audiences.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kama, Tel No: (043) 701 0316
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 12/79 : DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT REF NO:
MTCMA07
Branch: Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency Division:
Compliance Monitoring And Enforcement
SALARY : R1 266 714 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree in Natural Science / Engineering / Environmental /
Environmental Law or relevant NQF level 7 qualification. Six (6) to (10) ten
years’ experience in Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement of which five (5)
years’ experience must be at a middle / senior managerial level. The disclosure
of a valid unexpired driver’s licence. General Management. Presentation Skills.
Negotiation Skills. Communication/ Interpersonal Skills. Policy& Strategy
Development. Skills Development knowledge. Knowledge of relevant Acts.
Project and Programme Management. Development Skills.
DUTIES : Provide Strategic direction in the development and implementation of
compliance monitoring and enforcement policy, strategies, norms, regulations,
standard operating procedures within the catchment management area.
Facilitate the development of policies, legislation, regulations and guidelines.
Facilitate the consultative processes in the formulation of policies, legislations,
guidelines, norms and standard, and strategies within the catchment.
Disseminate legislative, technical and policy changes to relevant stakeholders
(internal and external). Advice stakeholders on policies, legislation, protocols,
regulation and guidelines. Develop a compliance and enforcement information
management and reporting system. Ensure compliance monitoring to all water
use license condition within the catchment. Provide guidance in the planning
of inspections and audits. Ensure the implementation of monitoring activities
and verification of reports. Analysing of reports. Provide advice on further
actions needed to be taken. Plan and promote environmental rights and justice
program (participation in sector specific forums). Provide information/ support
to the education and awareness component in conducting compliance
awareness workshops. Provide direction in the monitoring of dam safety
compliance. Manage the registration and classification of all dams within the
catchment. Ensure that all dams safety inspections are conducted. Ensure
dams comply with national norms and standards. Compile inspection report.
Ensure enforcement on no-compliance to the water use license conditions.
Facilitate investigations of non-compliance with water use license conditions.
Provide advice and support on criminal and administrative litigation. Initiate
prosecution against non-compliance through administrative enforcement.
Provision of business planning and general management for the directorate.
73
Develop a business plan and action plan for the Directorate. Develop and
implement a service delivery improvement programme for the Directorate.
Manage and ensure the development of human resources. Control and monitor
expenditure. Advise the CEO and Board on regulatory and compliance and
enforcement matters. Responsible for speech-writing and Ministerial
submissions as required. Deliver technical and other presentations, as required
to a variety of audiences..
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kama, Tel No: (043) 701 0316
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/80 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: MTCMA08
Branch: Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency Division:
Water Resources Planning And Management
SALARY : R1 266 450 per annum (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : An Engineering Degree (B Eng/BSC Eng) or relevant qualification. Six (6)
years post qualification experience. Compulsory registration with Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineer. The disclosure of
a valid unexpired driver’s license. Experience in water resources planning and
management. Experience in planning, hydrological modelling, economic
analysis, ecological matters, policy development and institutional aspects.
Computer literacy and good computer programming skills. Good
communication (verbal and written) and negotiation skills. Proven leaderships
skills and the ability to manage a professional multi-disciplinary team.
Knowledge of and experience in financial management and relevant Acts. Must
be available to travel as and when required often at short notice.
DUTIES : Identify, set up and manage multi-disciplinary catchment-wide planning and
studies. Identify vulnerable and sensitive areas with respect to water resources
or possible effect on water resources of the catchment. Co-ordinate and
process inputs from a wide range of disciplines, corporative analysis and
optimisation. Report on investigations of possible water resource
developments and/ or the development of strategies to reconcile water supply
and demand. Assist in providing professional guidance to teams of professional
service providers. Compile Terms of References for planning studies.
Management and administration of professional service providers, including
financial administration. Close interaction with other components, provincial
and central Government departments, other development agencies, local
authorities, the public and institutions. Responsible for budgeting for all
expenditure of the planning section as well as control of expenditure.
Responsible for speech-writing and Ministerial submissions as required.
Deliver technical and other presentations, as required to a variety of audiences.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kama, Tel No: (043) 701 0316
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act. Note: This
appointment will be made on the minimum notch of the salary range, however,
a higher notch within the salary range of Grade A will be considered based in
relation to the provisions of the Public Service Regulation 2016 as amended,
i.e. provision of the candidate’s current salary advice.
74
POST 12/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: REVENUE MANAGEMENT REF NO: MTCMA09
Branch: Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency Division:
Revenue Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : Undergraduate (NQF Level 7) in Accounting/ Financial Accounting or relevant
qualifications as recognized by SAQA, with related field. A minimum of five (5)
years’ experience in finance or supply chain management environment, of
which three (3) years should be at Assistant Director level or equivalent. The
disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge and understanding
of Human Resource Management Legislation, policies, practices and
procedures. Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations
and guidelines. Public Service Anti-corruption strategy and anti-corruption and
fraud prevention measures. Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative
action guidelines and laws. Knowledge of administrative and clerical
procedures and systems. Knowledge of commercial Laws. CMA/Departmental
policies and procedures. Principles and practice of financial accounting.
Accountability and ethical conduct. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage the implementation of revenue management policy and strategy.
Monitor the implementation of revenue management strategy, policies,
processes and procedures. Ensure compliance to revenue management
policies and procedures. Implement key customer account strategy. Ensure
master information is verified and approved in accordance with applicable
policies and procedures. Determines revenue estimates/ targets in line with
tariff determination process. Manage the billing of water users. Manage the
preparation of statements and bills. Ensure maintenance of client records
related to invoicing and bill payment. Ensure master file information is accurate.
Manage reconciling of billing accounts to the general ledger. Ensuring the
accuracy of invoicing for the company and its customers. Provide customer
support to customers with disputes or enquiries concerning invoices or billing
process. Ensure that all registered water users are billed regularly and receive
invoices/ statements. Regularly monitors billing for exceptions, e.g deviations
in volumes and amounts from the norm or standards. The management of
debts. Uptakes of all overdue debts. Regular follow up on paying customers.
Oversees the level of outstanding debt. Decreases debtors payment period.
Reconciliates and maintains debtors’ accounts. Conducts dunning process.
Provides inputs towards preparation of annual financial statements. Hand over
defaulters into the legal process. Oversee the debts to be handed for collection.
Recommend write-off for irrecoverable debts in accordance with PFMA and
treasury regulations. Determines and implements revision of impairment of
debtors. Ensure customers relations. Develop customer relations policy.
Appointments of key account managers. Establish a fully operational call
centre. Communication with customers through telephone, personal visits and
by letters. Receives and respond to customer queries within turnaround time.
Raises awareness on the need to pay water accounts. Raises on being
registered and licensed as water users. The management of the component.
Develops operational plan for the section. Develops and manages the budget
for the section. Develop an expenditure forecast on a quarterly basis for the
section. Manage human resources within the section. Participate in the
Recruitment and Selection of staff. Manages the development of individuals in
section. Ensures that HRD policies and procedures are applied for all staff
members with the section
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kama, Tel No: (043) 701 0316
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
75
POST 12/82 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CORPORATE SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
MTCMA10
Branch: Mzimvubu -Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency Division:
Corporate Support Services
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma (NQF level 6) or Bachelor Degree / Advanced Diploma
(NQF level 7) in Public Administration/Management/Human
Resources/Industrial Psychology. Three (3) to (5) five years’ management
experience at Assistant Director level in corporate support environment. The
disclosure of a Valid unexpired driver’s License. Knowledge of policy
development and implementation. Knowledge of administration processes.
Knowledge of HR Information. Knowledge of Disciplinary processes in HR.
Understanding of government legislation. Financial management and
knowledge of PFMA. knowledge of techniques and procedures for the planning
and execution of operations. Programme and Project Management.
Knowledge of relationship management. Problem solving and analysis. People
and diversity management client orientation and customer.
DUTIES : Manage and provide support in the following disciplines: Human Resources,
Information Technology, Administration, Communications, Safety and Security.
Analyse current policies and departmental strategic objectives. Develop and
implement administration policies across various disciplines. Recommend
amendments to existing policies and create implementation plans. Conduct
road shows and brief managers on key policy issues. Analyse human resource
information and trends. Provide expert advice to managers on HR information
implementation. Monitor and evaluate policy implementation within the
department. Develop and implement strategic plan. Create and execute a
corporate services implementation plan aligned with strategic objectives.
Support line managers in aligning their business plans with HR strategies.
Ensure, corporate services act as a business partner to line management.
Oversee the delegation and execution of tasks according to the strategic plan.
Compilation and management of Corporate Services budget. Develop the
corporate services budget. Ensure budget implementation aligns with
approved plans. Provide early warnings about potential financial risks or
issues. Prepare and share monthly budget reports with managers.
Management of Human Resources. Provide expert advice on HR policies and
implementation strategies. Monitor the consistent application of policies and
address any deviations. Montor and support performance management
processes. Facilitate training and development initiatives. Manage leave
administration
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kama, Tel No: (043) 701 0316
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 12/83 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: MTCMA11
Branch: Mzimvubu Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency division:
Financial Management
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (Level 11) (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : East London
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 7 qualification in Financial Management / Financial
Accounting or related field. Five (5) years’ experience in finance and or supply
chain management environment, of which three (3) years relevant experience
at supervisory / management (ASD) level. The disclosure of a valid unexpired
driver’s license. Knowledge and understanding of Human Resource
Management Legislation, policies, practices and procedures. Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations and guidelines. Public Service
Anti-corruption strategy and anti-corruption and fraud prevention measures.
Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative action guidelines and laws.
76
Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems. Knowledge
of commercial Laws. Departmental policies and procedures. Governmental
finals systems. Principles and practice of financial accounting. Accountability
and ethical conduct. Willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Provide strategic direction in management accountings services. Rendering of
budget planning, budget control and monthly reporting. Provide guidance on
handling budget planning. Management of budget control for all directorates.
Provide financial accounting services. Rendering of financial management
services. Provide bookkeeping services. Manage payroll services. Ensure
financial reporting. Ensure control of state-owned assets. Manage movable
assets. Manage immovable assets. Manage leased assets. Provide supply
chain management services. Provide guidance in the rendering of demands
management services. Ensure the acquisition of goods and services. Manage
logistics. Manage contracts. Provide strategic leadership and business
planning. Operational planning and reporting. Financial planning and reporting.
Supply chain planning and reporting. Human resource planning and reporting.
Human resource development and performance management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Kama, Tel No: (043) 701 0316
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
NOTE : The Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma Catchment Management Agency is a Public Water
Resource Management Agency, established in line with the provisions of the
National Water Act, 1998 (Act no 36 of 1998) (NWA) and National Water Policy
for South Africa. It is an entity of the National Department of Water and
Sanitation. Employees appointed in the CMA have similar employment terms
and conditions as those of employees appointed in terms of the Public Service
Act, though not employed in terms of the Public Service Act.
POST 12/84 : SCIENTIFIC TECHNICIAN: PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO: 240426/01
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: Fs Cd: Provincial
Operations Free State: Dir: Water Resources Management Support Sd:
Geohydrological Services
SALARY : R391 671 – R586 665 per annum (OSD) (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Natural /Water Groundwater/ Geohydrology related
Sciences or relevant qualification. Three (3) years’ post qualification technical
scientific experience in groundwater. Compulsory registration with SACNASP
as Certificated Natural Scientist. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s
license. Program and project management. Scientific methodologies and
models. Research and development. Computer-aided scientific applications.
Knowledge of groundwater resources management is essential. Extensive
experience in water management, Environmental field, urban development,
agricultural, waste management and mining. Understanding of department’s
role and function with respect to Water Quality and Water Resources
Protection. Knowledge of the National Water Act, 36 of 1998 and related
policies, strategies and guidelines. Understanding of principles of integrated
Water Resource Management. Experience in minimizing the impacts from
industries, agriculture, urban development and mining. Computer literacy.
Innovative thinking. Negotiation skills. Good written and verbal communication
skills. Knowledge of legal compliance. Technical report writing. Data analysis.
Scientific presentation. Decision making. Customer focus and responsiveness.
Problem solving.
DUTIES : Develop and implement methodologies, policies, systems and procedures.
Perform technical scientific and geohydrological functions and tasks that
require interpretation in the presence of an established framework. Apply
operational standards and consolidate methodologies, policies, systems and
procedures. Identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions and extension
of the groundwater monitoring network. Preparation and participation in
research activities. Data collection through field surveys. Maintenance,
calibration and operation of scientific equipment. Provide Geohydrological
technical support and advice. Develop working relations with client base and
extend client base. Promote public awareness of scientific activities. Provide
technical/scientific data, information and advice. To perform technical scientific
analysis and regulatory functions. Preparation of data and routine
interpretation. Database and data management. Analysis of technical scientific
77
data. Dissemination of information. Apply the appropriate scientific and
technical procedures/skills to generate information and knowledge. Formulate
proposals and compile reports. Develop and customize operational
procedures. Research and development. Continuous professional
development to keep up with new technologies and procedures. Conceptualize
and development of scientific equipment. Equipment review and procurement
of new equipment. Research/literature studies to improve expertise. Publish
and present technical reports and research findings. Liaise with relevant
bodies/councils on Geohydrological -related matters. Human capital
development. Mentor, train and develop candidate research technicians and
others to promote skills/knowledge transfer and adherence to sound scientific
principles and code of practice. Supervise technical support and processes.
Manage the performance management and development of staff. All duties will
be performed in a Geohydrological environment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms G Venter, Tel No: (051) 405 9000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 12/85 : CHIEF WATER PLANT SUPERINTENDENT REF NO: 240426/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Central Operations Dir: Operations
Central
SALARY : R325 101 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Jericho Dam
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4 qualification. Five (5) years’ experience in Water Plant Operations.
The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge in controlling
and managing the water distribution for all government water works within the
Area Offices Jurisdiction. Policy implementation. Monitoring and Evaluation
principles. Knowledge of managing human resources. Disciplinary knowledge
of Occupational Health and Safety. Disciplinary knowledge of public
administration. Knowledge in supporting water utilization and water resources
strategy. Knowledge of flood controlling and understanding of government
legislation. NB: Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to perform practical
test.
DUTIES : Manage bulk water infrastructure operations (pump Stations, dams and dam
walls, pipelines and weirs, reservoirs, residential and office infrastructure).
Maintenance of bulk water infrastructure (pump Stations, dams and dam walls,
pipelines and weirs, reservoirs, residential and office infrastructure).
Management of occupational health and safety and legal compliance.
Management of Human Resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Sehume, Tel No: (017) 846 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 12/86 : SECURITY OFFICER (NKP) REF NO: 240426/03 (X4 POSTS)
Infrastructure Management: Central Operations Dir: Operations Central
Branch: Infrastructure Management
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Central Operations Jericho Dam
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 4 Senior/Grade 12 qualification Certificate. One (1) to (3) three years
in the Security Industry. PSIRA Grade C certificate. Firearm Training Certificate
with Business Purpose. SAPS competency Certificate. National Key Point
Certificate. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license will serve as an
added advantage. Computer skills. Knowledge of minimum information
security standards (MISS) excellent communication skills verbal and written. A
comprehensive knowledge and understanding of assets and information
protection: Must be willing to work shifts including weekends and public
holidays, must be cleared of any pending criminal records. NB: Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to perform practical tests.
DUTIES : Guarding and Patrolling the Departmental premises, Conduct and enforce
compliance to access control procedures at all Departmental premises/NKP
main entrance by searching vehicles, people and property as per access
control and Criminal Procedure Act 51/1977, permit or deny entry as required.,
ensure prohibition of unauthorized removal of equipment from the premises,
operate control room security equipment’s. Arrest transgressor's at NKP area,
78
Ensure all incidents are recorded in the Occurrence book, ensure application
of emergency procedures in situation like boom threats, riots etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. DM Mhlanga Tel No: (017) 846 6000
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 12/87 : WATER CONTROL AID (X15 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastucture Management Northern Operations Dir: Operations
Northern
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Hartbeespoort Dam Ref No: 240426/04 (X1 Post)
Buffelspoort Dam Ref No: 240426/05 (X2 Posts)
Roodeplaat Dam Ref No: 240426/06 (X2 Posts)
Vaal Kop Dam Ref No: 240426/07 (X2 Posts)
Marico GWS Ref No: 240426/08 (X3 Posts
Klein Marico Ref No: 240426/09 (X3 Posts)
Lindleyspoort Dam Ref No: 240426/10 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 2. A Senior / Grade 12 certificate / Adult Education Training (AET)
or higher qualifications will serve as an added advantage. Good verbal, writing
and reading skills. Basic knowledge in controlling and managing the water
distribution for all Government water works. Basic understanding in
occupational Health and safety. Basic knowledge of flood control. Basic
understanding of record keeping.
DUTIES : Opening and closing of sluices according to scheme regulations. Handling the
water distribution sheet according to scheme regulations. Perform minor
maintenance on structures, fencing and sluices. Assist with opening of blocked
pipes and canals. Remove of algae and water grass in canals regularly.
Conduct daily inspections on section. Report holes on embankments and any
irregularly on canals to Water Control Officer. Look for cracks in measuring
structures and report defects. Stagnant water on the embankments must be
reported. Painting of sluices and long weir sluices. Ensure that sluice numbers
are clearly marked. Keep canal grids clean. Keep gauge plates clean. Keep
structures clean and their surroundings. Keep inlet hole to measuring box
always open. Clean and lock always the post boxes. Repair minor wash outs.
Repair equipment when necessary. Keep equipment’s safe and lock the
storeroom always.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. KS Thantsha Tel No: (015) 307 8600
Mr. ST Ngcobo, Tel No: (013) 262 6839
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 12/88 : GENERAL WORKER (X6 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations Dr: Operations
Southern
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Breede/Grouritz Ref No: 240426/11 (X1 Post)
Theewaterkloof Ref No: 240426/12 (X1 Post)
Clain William Dam Ref No: 240426/13 (X1 Post)
Vredendal Area Office Ref No: 240426/14 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. A higher qualification will serve as an added advantage.
Demonstration to relevant experience in a similar environment will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge of general worker in handling gardening
equipment and appliances. Knowledge of working on various general work
including lawn care process. Basic knowledge of maintenance practices for the
efficient and safe upkeep of government water infrastructure and associated
facilities.
DUTIES : Carry out general maintenance activities including weed control, gardening,
painting, maintenance of fire breaks and herbicide application. Conduct
general routine inspections on Departmental infrastructure. Perform
maintenance tasks on government water infrastructure and related facilities
such as canals, pipelines, dams, servitudes, terrain and buildings. Report
faults, defects, and safety hazards to supervisors promptly. Load and offload
equipment. Adhere to the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act and all
related safety regulations. Assist with other general duties as and when
requested.
79
ENQUIRIES : Mr Monwabisi Tom Tel No: (021) 941 6121
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
POST 12/89 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 240426/15 (X19 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations Dir: Operations
Northern Cluster
SALARY : R138 486 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Marico Dam
REQUIREMENTS : An ABET Certificate. A higher qualification will serve as an added advantage.
Preference will be given to candidates who can demonstrate relevant work
experience in a similar environment. Knowledge of general worker in handling
gardening equipment and appliances. Knowledge of working on various
general work including lawn care process. Basic knowledge of maintenance
practices for the efficient and safe upkeep of government water infrastructure
and associated facilities.
DUTIES : Carry out general maintenance activities including weed control, gardening,
painting, maintenance of fire breaks and herbicide application. Conduct
general routine inspections on Departmental infrastructure. Perform
maintenance tasks on government water infrastructure and related facilities
such as canals, pipelines, dams, servitudes, terrain and buildings. Report
faults, defects, and safety hazards to supervisors promptly. Load and off-load
equipment. Adhere to the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act and all
related safety regulations. Assist with other general duties as and when
requested.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Mameshi, Tel No: (082) 870 7157 / Mr P Mokgau, Tel No: (082) 870 7157
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
80
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 12/90 : DIRECTOR GENERAL: REF NO: DWYPD/007/2026
(Five-year Contract)
SALARY : R2 352 642 per annum (level 16), fully inclusive remuneration package. Plus,
a 10% non-pensionable HOD allowance.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicant must be in possession of a Postgraduate qualification (NQF Level 8)
in Public Administration/Business Management/Social/ Economic/
Development Sciences or relevant field. Successful completion of Nyukela
Public Service (SMS) Pre-Entry Programme prior appointment. Successful
completion of training on Gender Mainstreaming in the Public Service course
and any other appropriate training on WYPD issues as applicable to the work
of the department in this regard. At least 10 years of experience at a senior
managerial level, with demonstrated understanding of issues affecting women,
youth, and persons with disabilities. Proven leadership and strategic
management capability in the public sector or related environments.
Management of strategic policy-driven programmes. Demonstrative
experience in managing programmes related to women, youth and persons
with disability empowerment. Knowledge of Policy formulation process within
Government; Policy Development and Implementation; Public Finance
Management Act; Human Resource Management requirements applicable to
the Public Service, advanced understanding of women, youth and persons with
disability as designated groups; understanding of Multi-lateral Obligations.
Understanding of Legislative framework as applicable to the work of the
Department (e.g. Constitution, National Council on Gender Based Violence
and Femicide Act, 2024 (Act No.9 of 2024) National Youth Development
Agency Amendment Act, 2024 (Act No.11 of 2024). South African Youth
Development (SAYD) Act. 2008 (Act No.54 of 2008). Women Empowerment
and Gender Equality Act (WEGE Act) etc). Core Management Competencies:
Strategic Capability and Leadership, People Management and Empowerment,
Programme and Project Management, Financial Management Change
management, together with process competencies namely Service Delivery
Innovation, Knowledge Management, Problem Solving and Analysis,
Communication and Client Orientation and Customer Focus (Batho Pele
Principles) Personal Attributes: Ability to work under stressful situations;
Analytical thinking; effective interpersonal relations; highly motivated;
Innovative and creative; Negotiation and facilitation; People orientated and
able to function within a group; Solution orientated.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and ensure that the Department is well governed,
appropriately structured, human and financially resourced to deliver on the
mandate; Ensure that the Department’s five-year Strategic Plan and Annual
Performance Plans are developed and approved; Serve as an Accounting
Officer and ensure the implementation and adherence to the requirements of
an Accounting Officer in terms of the Public Finance Management Act and
Treasury Regulations; Participate in FOSAD and all DG Cluster structures in
advancing the rights of WYPD across the work of government. Ensure
implementation of programmes related to mainstreaming of the rights and
empowerment of women and the advancement of gender equality. Promote
the implementation of strategies and programs for gender mainstreaming
across government and other role players in the state; Monitor the
implementation of national policies, strategies and programmes on women’s
empowerment and gender equality; Facilitate and advocate for the economic
participation of women through preferential procurement and broad based
black economic empowerment; Provide gender and age disaggregated data
through research and policy analysis into development planning and service
delivery; Formulate and monitor the implementation of the gender
mainstreaming strategy into the whole Government; Advocate for 50/50 gender
parity across all spheres, levels and structures/ organisations in the country.
81
Ensure the implementation of programmes related to the mainstreaming of the
rights of persons with disabilities across government and society. Lead the
development and alignment of national disability rights policies with global
conventions (e.g., UNCRPD); Integrate disability rights across sectoral policies
and National Development Plan; Guide institutional capacity building for
disability mainstreaming across all spheres of government; Oversee the
national disability rights monitoring and evaluation framework; Promote
universal design, accessibility, and reasonable accommodation in public
services and infrastructure; Coordinate inclusive programmes in education,
employment, health, and social protection; Ensure full compliance with
legislation such as the White Paper on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities;
Advocate for disability-inclusive budgeting and resource mobilisation;
Advocate for increased representation of persons with disabilities in
employment towards the employment equity target of 7% by 2030. Provide
strategic leadership in the development, coordination, and implementation of
policies and programmes that promote the rights, empowerment, and
meaningful participation of youth. Oversee the development, review, and
implementation of the National Youth Policy and other youth-focused
frameworks; Promote policies and programmes that support youth access to
economic opportunities, including entrepreneurship, job creation, and
procurement; Ensure coordination between government departments, civil
society, the private sector, and development partners on youth development
initiatives; Advocate for measures to address youth unemployment; Advocate
for increased representation of youth employment in government towards 30%
by 2030. Provide support to the Minister in fulfilment of all requirements from
the oversight bodies. Provide efficient and effective support to the Minister and
Deputy Minister in their executive obligations and engagements with Cabinet,
PCC, IMC, Parliament, Government Ministries.
ENQUIRIES : Mbhazima Shiviti, Telephone number: (012) 359 0262
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you
may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-
General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private
Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand
delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria
CBD. Another option is to submit application through email as a single scanned
document/one PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each
position (Kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15MB). General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Mr Zuko
Bebula 012 359 0417/ Mr Joseph Mahlangu 012 359 0238 email
Recruitment03@dwypd.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be downloaded
from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted on the
old application for employment (Z83) will not be considered. All fields in the Z83
application form must be completed in full, in a manner that allows a selection
committee to assess the quality of a candidate based on the information
provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed by
applicants and signed, noting the importance of the declaration. South African
applicants need not to provide passport numbers. Candidate must respond
“Yes “or “No “to the question whether you are conducting business with the
state. If “Yes”, details thereof only shortlisted candidates will submit Declaration
form for conducting business with the state when shortlisted to the application.
It is acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to the
question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you
immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit
the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The
communication from HR of the Department regarding the requirement for
certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidates for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview following communication from HR.
Applications received after the closing date will Not be considered or accepted.
Correspondence is limited to short-listed candidates only. Non-RSA
citizens/permanent resident permit holders must submit a copy only when
shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
82
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill
and/or make an appointment of the advertised post. All shortlisted candidates
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical skills that are
generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Further, personnel suitability checks, including security vetting,
competency assessment will be conducted, as such the appointment will made
subject to positive outcomes of personnel suitability checks. A Successful
candidate shall be required to enter into performance agreement within three
(3) months of assuming her duties in the Department, and within one (1) month
of the date of her appointment conclude the prescribed contract of
employment. Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial
interest within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be
made on the first notch of the advertised salary level. Note that in terms of the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the
protection of applicants ‘personal information and only collect, use and retain
applicants’ personal information for the purposes of recruitment and selection
processes. The Department shall safeguard such personal information against
access by unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The
Department is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In the
filling of these posts, it is the intention of the Department to promote
representivity in the Public Service through the filling of this position and the
candidature of persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote
representivity will receive preference as the objectives of section 195 of the
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and the Employment Equity Act,
1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be taken into consideration. Note: Preference will be
given to Women and Persons with Disabilities.
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2026 at 16:00
OTHER POST
POST 12/91 : DRIVER/MESSENGER POSTS REF NO: DWYPD/006/2024
SALARY : R193 359 per annum (Level 04), plus benefits
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate or equivalent NQF
4 qualification, A valid driver’s license, 1-2 years’ experience as a
driver/messenger. Knowledge: understanding of road traffic rules and
regulations, Skills: Driving skills, Sound organisational skills, language skills
and the ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from
different backgrounds, basic written communication skills, Computer literacy
(MS Office), Good interpersonal skills, General office administrative and
clerical skills. Personal Attributes: high level of reliable, high sense of urgency,
ability to work effectively under limited supervision, highly motivated, goal
orientated and driven, Confidentiality, integrity and ability to act with tact and
discretion.
DUTIES : Collect and deliver documents; Collect, deliver and distribute documents of the
Departments; Transport employee in the Department ensure that employees
and guest are transported to their destinations on time, Record kilometres
when undertaking a trip; record keeping of the utilisation of the allocated motor
vehicle, log sheet and petrol receipts
ENQUIRIES : Mr Vusimuzi Mahamba, Tel No: 012 359 0204
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to choose/ utilise one of the methods provided below: you
may forward your application, quoting reference, addressed to: The Director-
General, Department of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Private
Bag X931, Pretoria, 0001. Alternatively, applications may also be hand
delivered to 268 Lilian Ngoyi Street, Fedsure Forum Building, 1st floor, Pretoria
CBD. Another option is to submit application through email as a single scanned
document/one PDF attachment to the email addresses specified for each
position (kindly note that the emailed applications and attachments should not
exceed 15mb). General enquiries may be brought to the attention of Mr
Amukelani Misunwa 012 359 0240/ Mr Joseph Mahlangu 012 359 0238 email
applications Recruitment01@dwypd.gov.za
NOTES : Applications must be submitted on new Z83 form, which can be downloaded
from: http://www.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp. Applications submitted on the
old application for employment (Z83) will not be considered. All fields in the Z83
application form must be completed in full, in a manner that allows a selection
83
committee to assess the quality of a candidate based on the information
provided in the form. It is therefore prudent that fields be completed by
applicants and signed, noting the importance of the declaration. South African
applicants need not to provide passport numbers. Candidate must respond
“Yes“ or “No“ to the question whether you are conducting business with the
state. If “Yes”, details thereof must be attached to the application. It is
acceptable for applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to the
question “In the event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you
immediately relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not required to
submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents but must submit
the completed and signed Z83 and detailed Curricula Vitae. The
communication from HR of the Department regarding the requirement for
certified document will be limited to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only
shortlisted candidate for a post will be required to submit certified documents
on or before the day of the interview following communication from HR. Non-
RSA citizens/permanent resident permit holders must submit a copy only when
shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill
and/or make an appointment to any of the advertised posts. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job as part of the selection process, the
logistics of which will be communicated by the Department. Successful
candidates shall be required to enter into performance agreement within three
(3) months of assuming their duties in the Department, and within one (1)
month of the date of their appointment conclude the prescribed contract of
employment. Designated employees shall be required to disclose their financial
interest within 30 days after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be
made on the first notch of the advertised salary level. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to personal security vetting. Note that in terms of the
Protection of Personal Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the
protection of applicants ‘personal information and only collect, use and retain
applicants’ personal information for the purposes of recruitment and selection
processes. The Department shall safeguard such personal information against
access by unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The
Department is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of these posts, the
objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and
the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be taken into
consideration and preference will be given to Women, Youth and Persons with
Disabilities.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 at 16:00
84
ANNEXURE O
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: FREE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
APPLICATIONS : Head: Public Works and Infrastructure, Human Resources Management
Directorate. P.O Box 7551, Bloemfontein 9300 Or Applications that are hand
delivered must be brought at the Foyer of Or Tambo House where they must
be placed in the appropriately marked box at: Security Ground Floor, Or Tambo
House, St. Andrews Street, Bloemfontein, No Applications Will Be Accepted By
Staff In Offices In The Building
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : Effective from 01 April 2026, the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure
now utilises an e-Recruitment System which means all applicants must
login/register (https://systems.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/Login) to apply
for positions, we only accept hand delivered/posted/emailed applications
should an applicant prove that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no
success and the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure ICT unit was
unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-Recruitment is equivalent to
the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility of applicants to ensure their
profiles are fully completed or their applications will not be considered, as per
the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation will still be required to be
uploaded on the system such as copies of all qualifications including National
Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc., however these documents need
not be certified at point of application, and however certification will be required
prior to attending the interview. Please note: All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the Department of Public Works
and Infrastructure does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. For SMS
positions certain candidates may be required to undergo additional
Competency Assessments. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship
checks will be conducted on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable,
additional checks will be conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive
effective 01 April 2024. By submitting your application, it also means you
consent to the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure processing your
information for Human Resources Management purposes. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level
certificates) evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at
your own expense. The status of your application will be visible on the e-
Recruitment system. However, if you have not received feedback from the
Department of Public Works and Infrastructure within 3 months of the closing
date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. All queries must be
submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment Support
Team on e-recruitmentfsdpwi01@fsworks.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/92 : SENIOR SECURITY OFFICER (REF NO: PWI 26/09) (1 POST)
Security Services Directorate
SALARY : R228 321 per annum (A basic salary) (Level 05)
CENTRE : Region: Thabo Mofutsanyane
REQUIREMENTS : Formal qualification for this position is Grade 12 (or equivalent). Relevant 2 - 3
years security experience. Registration with PSIRA Grade A. Successful
candidates will be expected to undergo a security clearance.
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions performed by the security officers, ensuring
adherence to or implementation of department security policies and will include
the following: Access control, Safety in building and the premises, authorizing
85
of the equipment, documents and stores into or out of the building or premises
and incidents/occurrence books/registers. Administrative and related functions
like authorizing leave, determining rosters, shift schedules and overtime,
monitoring performance of employees and determine training needs. Provide
inputs into drafting of policies. This includes evaluating and reporting on the
effectiveness of security measures and procedures. Coordinate suggestions
from internal or external stakeholders. Monitor and maintain the security
systems, report faulty equipment/systems and ensure systems are functioning
optimally through scheduled services. Support investigations, identify risks and
threats to the security of the department and provide information regarding
incidents to investigating officers.
ENQUIRIES : Only (No applications): e-recruitmentfsdpwi01@fsworks.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: (https://systems.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/Login)
POST 12/93 : SECURITY OFFICER (REF NO: PWI 26/10) (3 POSTS)
Security Services Directorate
SALARY : R168 680 per annum (A basic salary) (Level 03)
CENTRE : Region: Thabo Mofutsanyane
REQUIREMENTS : Formal qualification for this position is NQF level 3 (or equivalent). Registration
with PSIRA Grade C. Successful candidates will be expected to undergo a
security clearance.
DUTIES : Perform access control. Ensure safety in the buildings and the premises.
Ensure equipment, documents and stores do not leave or enter the building or
premises unauthorized. Ensure that all incidents are recoded in the occurrence
book or registers. Operate control room security equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Only (No applications): e-recruitmentfsdpwi01@fsworks.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: (https://systems.fshealth.gov.za/e-Recruitment/Login)
86
ANNEXURE P
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS AND TRANSPORT
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please apply online at
http://jobs.gauteng.gov.za. For general enquiries please contact Human
Resource on 011 355-7082/7043.Only online applications will be considered.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : In line with the Department’s employments Equity Plan, preference will be
given To Coloured Females, Indian Females, White Females candidates.
Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application form for employment,
issued by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration in line with
Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016. All fields in the New
Z83 form must be completed, initialled and signed. Furthermore, a
comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) must also be attached. Failure to attach
the completed Z83 and Comprehensive Curriculum Vitae (CV) will result in
disqualification. The New Z83 form is obtainable from any Public Service
Department or the DPSA website www.dpsa.gov.za/documents. Only
shortlisted candidates who meet all the requirements of the post will be
requested to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
valid driver’s license (where driving/travelling is an inherent requirement of the
job) not older than six (06) months. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. It is our intention to promote representation (race, gender and
disability) in the Public Service through the filling of posts and candidates
whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representation will receive
preference. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity through the filling
of all numeric targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan. To facilitate
this process successfully, an indication of race, gender and disability status is
required. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications
evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
Department reserves the right not to appoint. If you do not receive any
response from us within 3 months, please accept your application was
unsuccessful.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 12/94 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: ROADS MAINTENANCE REF NO: REFS/045396
Branch: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R1 494 900 – R1 787 328.per annum (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion of 30% that
may be structured in terms of applicable rules. Which includes state’s
contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund (13% of basic
salary). The successful candidate will be required to enter into a performance
agreement within three months after assumption of duty.
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : NQF level 7 in Built Environment in Construction studies/ BSc/B Eng in
Civil/Structural Engineering. Registered with professional Body (such as
Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA), South African Council for the
Project and Construction Management Professions (SACPCMP), South
African Council for Quantity Surveying Profession (SACQSP) etc. Minimum of
5 years senior management experience within transport infrastructure
environment and or built environment. Extensive experience in planning
management and execution of roads Construction/ maintenance of projects will
be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license. Pre-Entry SMS Certificate
submitted prior to appointment. Knowledge: Relevant legislation and Public
Service Regulations. Understanding of expectations of customers. Knowledge
of SLAs. Management information knowledge. Knowledge of construction
contract law & administration. Engineering Profession Act, 2000. Gauteng
Transport Infrastructure Act 2001. National Roads Traffic Act. 1996. National
Environmental Management Act, 1998. Colto Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Works. General Conditions of Contract (GCC & FIDIC. Skills: Client
orientation and customer focus. People management and empowerment.
87
Service delivery innovation. Problem solving and analysis. Project
management methodologies. Contract management. Business performance
management. Community relations. Stakeholder relationship management.
Analytical thinking. Research. Computer utilization. Policy formulation. Conflict
management. Financial management. Adaptability during changes to meet the
goals. Strategic management. Change/diversity management.
Communication. Creativity
DUTIES : Manage departmental maintenance of roads at the regional offices as per the
sphere segmentation. Manage outsourced road maintenance services.
Provide plant and equipment hire and fleet lease services. Manage fuel
services. Execute road network maintenance projects. Manage infrastructure
protection services. Manage Roads Asset Management System (RAMS) and
Geographic Information System (GIS) Manage plan room services. Manage
call center services. Manage the provision of access to the road. Manage
maintenance technical auxiliary services. Manage office support and
coordination services. Ensure that the expenditure is aligned with the
procurement and the approved budget. Render payments of goods and
services. Manage the cash flow projections and expenditure. Manage
maintenance contracts and coordinate regional maintenance contracts. Adhere
to and promote legislative, department prescripts and the Code of Conduct for
the Public Service. Provide strategic leadership to the units. Manage the
execution of maintenance strategies through the provision of appropriate
structures, systems and resources. Ensure maintenance standards,
specifications and service levels in accordance with Departmental objectives
to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor maintenance efficiencies
according to departmental goals to direct or redirect engineering services.
Manage, coordinate, and monitor the budget of the road maintenance
directorate. Implement the budget by monitoring, projecting, and reporting
expenditure. Ensure proper spending in line with strategic objectives. Monitor
the optimal utilization and functionality of equipment. Evaluate and monitor the
performance of employees to ensure achievement of strategic goal. Manage
the human resource development of employees. Enhance and maintain
employee motivation Plan, organize and control activities pertaining to the
functions of the component.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Mashele/ Mr. E Mpateni (011) 355-7521/7252
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/95 : CHIEF ENGINEER – MATERIAL SERVICES REF NO: REFS/045420
Branch: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R1 266 450 – R2 388 657 per annum (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Koedoespoort. (Pretoria)
REQUIRMENTS : Engineering Degree [B Eng/ Bsc (Eng)] in Civil Engineering. Minimum of 6
years post qualification relevant engineering experience as a registered
professional Engineer. Must have a valid driver’s license. Compulsory
Registration with ECSA as professional Engineer. Knowledge: GPG and GDRT
Policies and procedures. Relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations.
Understanding of expectations of customers. Knowledge of SLAs.
Management information knowledge. Knowledge of GPG political and
executive structure. Engineering professional Act. Gauteng transport
Infrastructure Act 2001. National Land Transport Act. Architectural Profession
Act. Landscape Architectural Profession Act. Programme and project
management. Engineering design and analysis. research and development.
Computer aided engineering application. Knowledge of legal compliance.
Technical report writing. Creating High performance culture. Professional
judgement. Networking Attributes- Decisive. Responsive. Credible.
Flexible/Change oriented. Proactive and resourceful.
DUTIES : Plan for and undertake pavement designs for roads. Prepare tender
documentation and manage consulting engineering contracts. Validate
compliance with departmental design policies, standards and procedures.
Contribute to the condition assessments for roads and make recommendations
for repairs. Lead panel inspections for roads and management of these assets.
Quality control pavement designs by consultants for road construction and road
rehabilitation projects. Prepare deliverables and reports associated with the
relevant stages of the Standard for Infrastructure Procurement and Delivery
Management. Participate in and report at the provincial and national
88
infrastructure forums. Mentor Candidate Engineers, Technologists and
Technicians employed by the Department
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Mashaba Tel No. 011 355 7340/Ms. A. Mkhombo/ Mr. E Mpateni (011)
355-7521/7252
POST 12/96 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ICT GOVERNANCE AND INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT REFS NO: REFS/045391
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All-inclusive package) (level 11)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma/ Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in ICT (Computer
Science/Informatics)/Business Information Management/Information
Technology. ITIL, COBIT, Project Management certifications will be an added
advantage, 3-5 years’ experience in ICT middle management position.
Knowledge and Skills. GPG and DPDRT policies and procedures. Relevant
legislation and Public Service Regulations. Government ICT procurement.
People and empowerment, service delivery innovation, problem solving and
analysis and written and oral communication.
DUTIES : Manage ICT governance. Manager the department information security
through the implementation of tools and techniques. Implement technical
solutions for information and knowledge management. Implement processes
that promote alignment of the ICT goals and objectives. Coordinate the
proceedings of the IT steering committee meetings. Manage ICT risks and
audits. Ensure efficient management of ICT risk and audit environment.
Develop and manage ICT risk management processes. Manage audit
performance of internal and external auditors. Manage and monitor ICT service
level agreement/contracts. Develop and manage departmental Service Level
Agreement (SLA) with business units. Manage ICT business improvement and
change management. Manage ICT projects through the implementation of ICT
projects methodology. Develop and manage relationships with relevant
stakeholders. Conduct research. Conduct research and development of ICT
Governance. Manage ICT Assets and support services. Manage and monitor
ICT budget and procurement. Manage the continuous improvement of ICT
support services through improvement of services, practices and processes.
Manage resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/Asset). Monitor the
performance of staff and ensure performance assessment. Coordinate the
compilation of various reports.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011 355 -7521)/ Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 - 7175
POST 12/97 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT SERVICES REF NO:
REFS/045390
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All inclusive package) (level 11)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) Degree (NQF Level 7) in ICT (Computer
Science/Informatics)/Business Information Technology/Information
Technology. ITIL, COBIT, Project Management certifications will be an added
advantage, 3-5 years’ experience in ICT middle management position.
Knowledge and skills Relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations.
Knowledge of SLAs. Management information knowledge. Minimum
information Security Standard. Ability to undertake a risk analysis and
undertake a risk mitigation strategy. Ability to identify and interpret the required
information fields and documentation.
DUTIES : Manage ICT infrastructure and capacity plan. Develop and implement policies
and capacity plans for the department server and network infrastructure in line
with departmental requirements. Manage and monitor the allocation of
software licenses to ensure optimum utilisation and minimise costs. Oversee
the management of unified communications systems (telephone system).
Manage ICT server and network support infrastructure services. Manage and
coordinate the day-to-day activities and operations of the department
Network/Server infrastructure and secure network environment. Maintain the
network infrastructure, software, network operating system and applications.
Manage desktop support services. Manage the maintenance and support of all
computer end-user devices and computerised systems, information processing
equipment and software. Develop, implement and maintain ICT business
89
continuity and disaster recovery. Interact with relevant professional
bodies/councils on the latest development in the information technology field
(CSIR, E-GOV, GMA, MASTEK, Microsoft, RTMC, SANRAL etc.). Manage
resources (Human, Financial, Equipment/Asset)
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011 355 -7521) Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 – 7175
POST 12/98 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: CAREER DEVELOPMENT REF NO: REFS/045394
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R896 436.per annum (All-inclusive package) (level 11)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : Bachelor’s degree (NQF Level 7) in Human Resource Development
/Management/ Industrial Psychology/ Business Administration/Public
Management. A minimum of 3–5 years’ experience in Human Resource
Development at an Assistant Director or junior management position/level.
Sound knowledge and insight regarding the regulatory framework and related
HR legislation and policies. Good planning, organising, presentation, and
financial management skills. Project and programme management expertise in
Human Resource Development. Excellent writing skills with meticulous
attention to detail and record keeping. Computer literacy skills. People
management and empowerment. Ability to work under pressure and
demonstrate innovative and cre-ative thinking. A valid driver’s license. Good
communication (verbal and written), analytical thinking, and problem solving
skills.
DUTIES : Manage learnerships, apprenticeship, internship programme and Can-didacy
Development Programme. To identify Learnership needs for the Department.
Manage the implementation of structured training programmes for interns,
learners and apprentices with respective Branch/line managers, accredited
service providers, like Sector Education and Training Authority. Monitor the
effective implementation of the Internship, Learnership and Apprenticeship
programme and liaise with the appropriate Sector Education and Training
Authority established in terms of the Skills Development Act of 2008 (Act 37 of
2008). Manage the administration of internal and external bursaries. Develop
and implement needs analysis to determine the department’s skills shortage
with the respective Branch, relevant Committees. Manage and coordinate the
implementation of succession planning, career development and monitoring.
Ensure effectiveness of talent pipeline management programme. Manage the
implementation of Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL). Align the recognition of
qualification prior learning programme with HRD plan. Manage the recognition
of improved qualifications process. Develop a plan to administer the
implementation of the Recognition of Improved Qualifications. Manage the
Sub-Directorate Career Development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011 355 -7521)/ Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 – 7175
POST 12/99 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: APPLICATIONS SUPPORT (INFORMATION
SYSTEMS) REF NO: REFS/045389
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Plus benefits) (level 09)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6)/Degree (NQF Level 7) in ICT (Computer
Science/Informatics)/ Business information Technology Management/
Information Technology. Valid driver’s license. Minimum Information Security
Standard. System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as an added advantage. 3-
5 years’ experience in software development. Knowledge and skills. Relevant
legislation and Public Service Regulations, knowledge of SLAs, Information
management, Minimum Information Security Standard. Strong problem solving
and analysis, change management and stakeholder relationship management.
Interact with relevant professional bodies/councils on latest developments in
the information technology field.
DUTIES : Develop and facilitate the implementation of policies and procedures. Provide
input in the development, review, and implementation of policies and standard
operating procedure. Ensure compliance to system development life cycle.
Provide reliable, secured, quality information and data analytics through
integration of business solutions. Analyse and translate functional
specifications and change requests into technical specs. Develop, implement,
maintain, train and support business applications. Provide overall design and
90
structure of application. Conduct research. Undertake research relevant to
applications support. Interact with relevant professional bodies/councils on
latest developments in the information technology field. Supervisor staff
(human/equipment). Coach, mentor staff to improve performance. Monitor the
performance of staff and ensure assessment of their performance. Provide
input in drafting of budget in the section. Control and monitor the subsection
budget expenditure. Coordinate the compilation of various reports and
statistics for the section.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011 355 -7521)/Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 – 7175
POST 12/100 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CASE MANAGEMENT REF NO: REFS/045397
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Plus benefits) (level 09)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma/Degree (NQF level 6/7) in Labour Relations/ Labour Law/
Human Resource Management or equivalent as recognized by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Minimum of 3 – 5 years of experience
in Labour Relations, collective bargaining, legal environment and/or case
management. Knowledge and skills: GPG and DPDRT policies and procedures
and relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations, people management
and empowerment and problem-solving analysis. LLB degree will be an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Manage and maintain a case management system. Acknowledge and register
all cases in the Department. Analyse reports received and charge employees
to determine grounds of misconduct. Ensure investigations are conducted and
liaise with Labour Unions’ representatives and make recommendations.
Facilitate dispute resolution. Attend the conciliation and arbitration proceedings
on all set down disputes. Coordinate and facilitate disciplinary processes.
Facilitate the acknowledgement and receipt of arbitration awards. Coordinate
and facilitate disciplinary processes. Attend to all formal disciplinary hearings
and progressive discipline within the Department. Promote fair and sound
Labour relations practices in the Department. Provide advisory role on all
labour relations matters and challenges. Development of labour relations.
Development of Labour relations policies, manuals and guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 – 7175
POST 12/101 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REF NO:
REFS/045395
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Plus benefits) (level 09)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma/Degree (NQF level 6/7) in Labour Relations/ Labour Law/
Human Resource Management. Minimum of 3 – 5 years of experience in
Labour Relations, collective bargaining, legal environment and/or case
management. Knowledge and skills: GPG and DPDRT policies and procedures
and relevant legislation and Public Service Regulations, knowledge of SLA’s,
conflict management and financial management.
DUTIES : Facilitate collective bargaining processes in the Department. Monitor all
Collective Bargaining activities in the Department. Monitor all Collective
Bargaining activities in the Department. Facilitate labour related policies
guidelines and labour relations processes. Provide Labour Relations advice
and technical support to line managers in the Department (Regions, TOLABSs
and DLTSs). Facilitate and monitor consultative structures within the
Department. Conduct impact analysis on labour relations processes and
policies. Monitor the implementation of arbitration awards and collective
agreements. Communicate the decision/awards. Conduct advocacy sessions
to promote fair and sound collective bargaining practices in the Department.
Capacitate line managers and employees on collective bargaining matters.
Manage strike action in the Department. Facilitate grievance resolution arising
from collective bargaining processes and intervene in conflict management.
Manage resources (Human, Equipment/Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo (011) 355 -7521 /Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 – 7175
91
POST 12/102 : CHIEF TRAINING OFFICER – ZWARTKOP TRAINING CENTRE REF NO:
REFS/045392
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum (Plus benefits) (level 09)
CENTRE : Zwartkop Training Centre
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Education (registered with SACE)
/Business Administration/Human Resource Development. Facilitator, Assessor
and moderator Certificates with ETQA. Road Construction Plant and
Equipment certificates. Professional certificates in training or learning and
development (SETA Accredited). 3-5 years’ experience in Training and
Development as a Facilitator, Assessor and Moderator. Road Maintenance and
Construction experience will be an added advantage. Knowledge and Skills.
GPG and GPDRT policies and procedures. Relevant legislation and Public
Service Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers,
documentation Management and knowledge of GPG executive structures.
DUTIES : Develop and maintain the policies regulations and standards. Ensure that
training programs comply with relevant regulations, standards and
departmental policies. Conduct needs assessments to identify technical skill
gaps and training requirements across different business units within the
department. Plan and prioritise training and development interventions.
Design, monitor and evaluate accredited and non-accredited courses and
programs. Evaluate and update existing programs to ensure relevance and
effectiveness. Design and monitor the implementation of accredited and non-
accredited bearing skills programme. Design, implement and evaluate job
specific courses and contractor developing programs in alignment with
departmental goals and needs. Advise and assist relevant directorates/regions
on Development practices, in line with technical training i.e. road worker
student engineers and candidate engineers etc. Ensure that the training
manuals, guides and course material such as handouts and visual materials
are maintained and readily available. Coordinate and facilitate training
programs. Execute the rolling out of the training curriculum’s according to the
training Program. Evaluate theoretical and practical and in line with unit
standard requirements. Manage resources (Human, Equipment/Assets).
Oversee administrative tasks related to training programs, including record-
keeping and reporting. Responsible for coaching, discipline and monitoring of
staff to improve performance. Manage and monitor performance contracts and
assessment of sub-ordinates. Manage leave of sub-coordinate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 – 7175
POST 12/103 : ENGINEER TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A – C REF NO: REFS/045421
Branch: Roads Infrastructure
SALARY : R453 576 – R690 237 per annum (Plus benefits). The offer is based on
recognition of experience after registration. (Proof of recognized experience
will be requested only to the shortlisted candidates).
CENTRE : Johannesburg, Head Office
REQUIRMENTS : Bachelor of Technology in Civil Engineering (B Tech). Three years post
qualification Engineering Technologist experience required. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as an Engineering Technologist. Must have a valid
driver’s license. Knowledge And Skills: Knowledge in GPG and GPDRT
policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and public service Regulation,
Understanding of expectation of customers, Knowledge of SLAs, Management
information knowledge of GPG political and executive structures, Engineering
professional Act, Gauteng infrastructure Act 2001, National land Transport Act
2009, Architectural Profession Act and Landscape Architectural Profession Act.
Skills in Programme and Project Management, Engineering design and
analysis knowledge, Research and development, Computer aided engineering
applications, Knowledge of legal compliance, Technical report writing, Creating
high performance culture, Professional judgement and Networking.
DUTIES : Evaluate and approve geometrics, bridges and stormwater designs. Receive
application from the service providers for approval of roads, bridges and
stormwater designs, Assess the applications in terms of the Departmental
standards, Approve the sign of the roads designs, Drafting of preliminary and
detail designs in -house, Receive the request from the public to upgrade
intersections on provincial roads, Compile design reports for approval by the
DDG: Roads Branch, Implementing the in-house designs (DLTC’s, gravel
92
roads to surface roads and intersection upgrades) as requested by the public
and the Department, Projects Management (Capital projects),Create tender
documents with the scope of works for service providers, Appoint services
providers for capital projects, Monitor service providers deliverables as per
appointment in terms of completion time and budget.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. E Mashaba Tel No. 011 355 7340/ Mr. E Mpateni Tel 011 355 7252
POST 12/104 : SENIOR TRAINING OFFICER – ZWARTKOP TRAINING CENTRE REF NO:
REFS/045393
Branch: Corporate Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum (Plus benefits) package (Level 08)
CENTRE : Zwartkop Training Centre
REQUIRMENTS : National Diploma/Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Education (registered with
SACE)/Business Administration/Human Resource Development. Facilitator,
Assessor and Moderator Certificates with ETQA. Road Construction Plant and
Equipment certificates. Professional certificate in training or learning and
development (SETA Accredited). 2-3 years’ experience in Training and
Development Environment as a Facilitator and Assessor. Road Maintenance
and Construction experience will be an added advantage. Knowledge and
Skills. GPG and GPDRT policies and procedure, relevant legislation and Public
Service Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers and
knowledge of GPG executive structures. Computer utilisation and conflict
management.
DUTIES : Implementation training and staff development programs. Implement training
and development programmes in line with set standards and outcomes.
Conduct training interventions to address skills development needs and to help
workers maintain or improve job skills. Facilitate the implementation of training
and developmental interventions in compliance with training and
Developmental Legislation and policies. Execute, monitor and evaluate
accredited and non-accredited courses and programs. Execute, monitor and
evaluate accredited and non-accredited courses and programs. Execute the
implementation of accredited and non-credited bearing skills programme to
meet the required skills as needs analysis. Implement training and staff
development interventions using effective methods such as classroom training,
on job training, workshops exposure etc. Facilitate training programs. Conduct
the rolling out of the training interventions in line with the Training Program.
Implementation and Evaluation of Pre assessments before training program.
Implementation and Evaluation of Pre assessments before training begins.
Enable learners to undergo Recognition of Prior Learning as per agreement
(Technical jobs such as Road Worker Earth moving and non-Earth moving
Operators). Supervise resources (Human, Equipment/Assets). Responsible for
coaching, discipline and mentoring of staff to improve performance. Manage
and monitor performance contract and assessment of subordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A. Mkhombo Tel No: (011) 355 -7521 / Ms. P. Mabasa (011) 355 – 7175
93
ANNEXURE Q
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL PROVINCE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-
Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and
CV directly to the following email address: kznjobs@kznedtea.gov.za All
attachments for Email applications must include an application form Z83 and
CV only combined in PDF and as one (1) document or attachment, indicating
the correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of
your email Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS), where our friendly staff will assist you with
applying online or receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the
Designated Online Application Centres (DOACS) list at
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs.” Please Note That Applicants Should Only Use
One Of The Following Methods When Applying For A Post: Either Through The
Online E-Recruitment System, Emailing The Z83 And Cv Directly To The
Relevant Department, Or Submitting A Hard-Copy Application As Directed.
Applications may alternatively be forwarded to the Department of Economic
Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Private Bag X9152,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200, OR hand delivered to the Ground Floor, 270 Jabu
Ndlovu Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3201, in the vacancy box provided for the
attention of Ms Nondumiso Buthelezi / Mr Sipho Zangwa.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and time
will not be considered.
NOTE : Directions To Candidates Note to applicants: The Provincial Administration of
KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and women
and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply.The Department of
Economic Development, Tourism, and Environmental Affairs is an equal
opportunity, affirmative action employer, and preference will be given to
suitably qualified candidates from designated groups in terms of the
Employment Equity Act, 1998. The Department reserves the right not to make
these appointments. All information submitted will be treated as confidential.
The Department reserves the right to withhold the filling of the abovementioned
posts at any time before an appointment. All applications must be submitted on
the new Application for Employment form (Z83), which became effective from
the 1st of January 2021, obtainable from any Public Service Department or can
be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The form must be completed
in full, and the application form should be initiated, signed, and dated. All
required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or
disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The
completed and signed Z83 must be accompanied by an updated, detailed
Curriculum Vitae (CV). Dates of starting and leaving employment must be
given as DD/MM/YYYY. Shortlisted candidates must submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview, following communication from
Human Resources. Should an applicant have a foreign qualification, it must
be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Applications submitted electronically will be
taken as a final application and may not be amended or supplemented in any
way after the closing date indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been
contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to undergo a competency test/technical exercise. Candidates
are discouraged from sending their applications through registered mail, as the
Department will not take responsibility for the non-collection of those
applications. The appointment is subject to a positive outcome obtained from
the State Security Agency to the following checks (security clearance,
qualification, citizenship, and previous employment verifications). The
Department will conduct reference checks with the HR of the current and/or
previous employer(s) apart from the referees listed. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements, and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Following the interview and technical exercise, the
94
selection panel will recommend candidate/s to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on
implementing competency-based assessment). The competency assessment
will test generic managerial competencies using the mandated DPSA SMS
competency assessment tools. Before the appointment for SMS positions, the
appointee will be required to produce a Pre-entry certificate for the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme, a public service-specific training program
applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS. The course is offered
by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the
NSG under the name Certificate for entry, and the full details can be obtained
by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-
entryprogramme. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the Department
is not in a position to cover any travel and subsistence costs associated with
recruitment processes.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 12/105 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: STRATEGIC INDUSTRIAL INTERVENTIONS REF NO:
CD-STR INTER 03 / MARCH 2026
Business Unit: Strategic Industrial Interventions
This post is being re-advertised. Candidates who applied previously may re-
apply.
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14) (All-inclusive salary package
to be structured under the rules of SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree or equivalent qualification in Industrial
Engineering/ Economics / Development Studies or other relevant disciplines at
NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA. Postgraduate qualification in Industrial
Policy or Engineering Management will be an added advantage. A minimum of
five years of experience at a Senior Managerial level in industrial development.
Completion of Nyukela Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management
Service) upon appointment A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: The successful candidate will be required to Provide
strategic leadership and direction in promoting Maritime Services and Port
operations through participatory determination in the industry Co-ordinate and
develop Annual Performance, Operational and Strategic Plans for the Chief
Directorate Provide strategic direction and coordination in the implementation
of the KZN integrated Aerotropolis strategy (IAS) and the associated master
plan to support Aerotropolis development Provide strategic leadership and
guidance in the implementation of strategies to support industrial economic
HUBs and Special Economic Zones (SEZs) Coordinate the development and
implementation of policies Manage human, financial resources and assets of
the Chief Directorate. Skills, Training, And Competencies: The successful
candidate must have: Extensive knowledge of the Durban Aerotropolis Master
Plan; Industrial Economic Hubs, Maritime Industry, and Special Economic
Zones Strategies; National Maritime Transport Policy; Provincial Industrial
Development Strategy (PIDS); and National Development Plan. Broad
understanding of the public sector environment. Provincial Growth and
Development Plan (PGDP), District Growth and Development Plan (DGDP).
Good knowledge of strategy development and policy implementation in
accordance with agreed norms and standards. Knowledge and understanding
of the regulatory framework for the Public Service, e.g., the Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, the Public Service Act, the PFMA, Treasury
Regulations, the Public Service Regulations, the Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and the Labour
Relations Act. Good stakeholder coordination and engagement, Sound
research, knowledge management, strategic capability and leadership,
problem solving and analysis, and empowerment. Knowledge and
understanding of Employee Performance and Management System,
knowledge of the Security Management Act, Bill of Rights, Community
Outreach, and Public participation. Skills: Ability to communicate at all levels,
including Provincial Departments, Senior Management, and Private Sector
Organizations. Computer literacy, strategic planning, negotiating skills,
programme and project management principles, report writing, and
presentation skills. Broad knowledge of service delivery innovation, change
management, and financial management. Strategic and leadership, policy
95
analysis and development, management and administration, advanced written
and verbal communication, people management, corporate planning, decision
making, research, knowledge management,
ENQUIRIES : MS F F Pupuma: Tel No: 033 264 2543 / 082 788 8330
NOTE : Target: Females And People With Disabilities Who Meet The Requirements.
POST 12/106 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: TOURISM DEVELOPMENT REF NO: CD-TOURISM 04 /
MARCH 2026
Business Unit: Tourism Development
SALARY : R1 494 900 - R1 787 328 per annum (Level 14) (All-inclusive salary package
to be structured under the rules of SMS)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree in Tourism Management / BCom in Tourism
and Hospitality/ Development Studies / Business Administration / Economics /
Policy and Economic Development at NQF level 7 as recognised by SAQA.
Postgraduate qualification in Management Sciences will be an added
advantage. A minimum of five years of experience at a Senior Managerial level
in the tourism sector. Completion of Nyukela Certificate for entry into the SMS
(Senior Management Service) upon appointment A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: The successful candidate will be required to Provide
strategic leadership and direction in promoting sustainable tourism growth and
development in the Province Provide strategic direction on the promotion of
tourism sector transformation Provide strategic leadership and guidance on
tourism planning. Manage the development and implementation of tourism
policies, strategies, and programmes, such as risk and integrity management,
operation Sukuma Sakhe/DDM Manage human, financial resources, and
assets of the Chief Directorate. Skills, Training, And Competencies: The
successful candidate must have a thorough understanding of stakeholder
management dynamics within the tourism industry at all levels. Knowledge and
understanding of the tourism sector. Knowledge and understanding of National
Tourism Sector Strategy, Provincial Tourism Master Plan, New trends on
Tourism issues, Tourism Act of 2014, KwaZulu/Natal Tourism Act of 1996 as
amended; White paper on the Development and Promotion of Tourism Broad
Based Black Economic Empowerment Act (BBBEE); Industrial Policy Action
Plan (IPAP); South Africa Trade Policy Framework; Trade and Investment Act;
Business Act; Industrial Development Strategy (IDS); Investment Promotion
Strategy; Provincial Growth and Development Strategy (PGDS); Provincial
Spatial Economic Development Strategy (PSEDS); National Development
Plan (NDP); National framework for Sustainable Development; National and
Provincial legislations and regulations, Public service legislation, Knowledge
Management Strategies, Risk Management Processes Ethics and Integrity
Management, HR processes, Public Finance Management Act and Treasury
Regulations, Public Service Act &Regulations, Service delivery (Batho Pele).
Knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework for the Public
Service, e.g., the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the Public
Service Act, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, the Public Service Regulations,
the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), the Occupational Health and
Safety Act, and the Labour Relations Act. Skills: Ability to communicate at all
levels, including Provincial Departments, Senior Management, and Private
Sector Organizations. Computer literacy, time management, Research skills,
Analytical thinking, Interpersonal relations, Language proficiency, Conflict
Management, Presentation skills, Co-ordination, Planning and organizing,
Presentation skills, Basic driving, Diplomacy, Priority Setting, Development and
facilitation skills, Business planning and project management.
ENQUIRIES : MS F F Pupuma: Tel No: (033) 264 2543 / 082 788 8330
NOTE : Target: Females And People With Disabilities Who Meet The Requirements.
POST 12/107 : DIRECTOR: TOURISM GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DIR-
TOURISM GROWTH 05/ MARCH 2026
Business Unit: Chief Directorate: Tourism Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13) (All-Inclusive Salary Package
To Be Structured Under The Rules Of SMS)
CENTRE : Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s degree in Tourism Management / BCom in Tourism
and Hospitality/ Development Studies / Business Administration / Economics /
96
Policy and Economic Development at NQF Level 7 as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of five years of experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level and
practical work experience in the Tourism Sector. Completion of Nyukela
Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management Service) upon
appointment; A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: The successful candidate will be required to:
Coordinate and facilitate tourism product development in the Province and
package specific niche markets Facilitate the creation of a conducive
environment for tourism enterprises within the Province Coordinate the
registration, compliance and enforcement function of tourism businesses and
tourists guides as per the legislation Manage the development and
implementation of Tourism policies, strategies, programmes such as Risk and
Integrity Management Operation Sukuma Sakhe /DDM Manage the resources
of the Directorate. Skills, Training, And Competencies: The successful
candidate must demonstrate in-depth knowledge and understanding of tourism
legislation, policies, and strategic frameworks applicable to the tourism sector
e.g., KZN Tourism Act; KZN Tourism Master Plan; National & Provincial Tourism
Sector Strategies; Provincial Growth & Development Strategy (PGDS);
Provincial Spatial Economic Development Strategy (PSEDS); Economic
Transformation; KZN Beach Tourism act. Knowledge of New trends on tourism
issues, Public service legislation, Tourism Act of 2014, KwaZulu Natal Tourism
Act of 1996 as amended; White paper on the Development and Promotion of
Tourism Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act (BBBEE); Industrial
Policy Action Plan (IPAP); South Africa Trade Policy Framework; Trade and
Investment Act; Business Act; Industrial Development Strategy (IDS);
Investment Promotion Strategy; Provincial Growth and Development Strategy
(PGDS); Provincial Spatial Economic Development Strategy (PSEDS);
National Development Plan (NDP); National framework for Sustainable
Development; National and Provincial legislations and regulations, Public
service legislation, Knowledge Management Strategies, Risk Management
Processes Ethics and Integrity Management, HR processes, Service delivery
(Batho Pele). Knowledge and understanding of the regulatory framework for
the Public Service, e.g., the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the
Public Service Act, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, the Public Service
Regulations, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), the
Occupational Health and Safety Act, and the Labour Relations Act. Skills:
Ability to communicate at all levels, including Provincial Departments, Senior
Management, and Private Sector Organizations. Computer literacy, Analytical
thinking, Research skills, Presentation skills, Written and verbal
communication skills, Stakeholder consultation skills, Advisory skills, Project
management, Organizing and coordination skills, Facilitation skills, Policy
analysis and development Interpersonal relations, Language proficiency,
Diplomacy Time management, Conflict management, Report writing, Strategic
planning, Coaching and mentoring, and Driving skills.
ENQUIRIES : MS F F Pupuma: Tel No: 033 264 2543 / 082 788 8330
NOTE : Target: Females And People With Disabilities Who Meet The Requirements.
POST 12/108 : DIRECTOR: AEROTROPOLIS DEVELOPMENT REF NO: DIR-AERO DEV
06/ MARCH 2026
Business Unit: Strategic Industrial Interventions
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13) (All-Inclusive Salary Package
To Be Structured Under The Rules Of SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate bachelor’s degree in urban or Regional Planning / Transport
Economics / Economic Development / Economics / Policy Development /
Engineering (Civil, infrastructure), or Transport Logistics at NQF Level 7 as
recognized by SAQA. Postgraduate qualifications (highly advantageous) -
Master’s degree in urban planning, Economic Development, Economics,
Business Administration/ Business Management. A minimum of five years of
experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level in the Transport and/or Aviation
Sector. Completion of Nyukela Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior
Management Service) upon appointment; A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: The successful candidate will be required to: Oversee
and provide strategic leadership for the Implementation of the Durban
Aerotropolis Master Plan and the Integrated Aerotropolis Strategy Oversee and
provide strategic leadership for the Implementation of the KZN Regional Airport
97
Strategy Oversee and provide strategic leadership for Advancing knowledge
and skills in the field of Aerotropolis and Aviation Industry Technical Economic
support and source of information in the development of Aerotropolis Supervise
the Aerotropolis Development Administration, Risk Management and
Budgeting processes and Manage human resources. Skills, Training, And
Competencies: The successful candidate must demonstrate in-depth
knowledge and understanding of Aerotropolis theory, including how airports
become economic growth engines that link logistics, commerce, planning, and
community development. Advance knowledge of Aerotropolis and Airport cities
development strategy, global value chains, and connectivity of Aerotropolis,
business development, and investment attraction around airports. Knowledge
of Urban planning and spatial development, including land-use planning,
master planning frameworks, and sustainability principles. Economic
development principles, including job creation strategies, investment attraction,
economic modelling, and regional competitiveness. Public-private partnerships
(PPP) and infrastructure financing with respect to how government and private
investors align funding and risk. Transport logistics and connectivity planning
with intermodal transport (air, road, rail) and logistics infrastructure. Policy,
regulatory, and governance frameworks. Strong Knowledge of the KZN
Integrated Aerotropolis Strategy, Durban Aerotropolis Master Plan, KZN
Regional Airport Strategy; basic understanding of the South African Civil
Aviation Authority Regulations (SACAA), International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO); Knowledge and understanding of the regulatory
framework for the Public Service, e.g., the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, the Public Service Act, the PFMA, Treasury Regulations, the Public
Service Regulations, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA), the
Occupational Health and Safety Act, and the Labour Relations Act, Skills
Development Act, Service Delivery Frameworks, policies, and strategies
relevant to Aerotropolis development (e.g. National Airports Development Plan,
Bilateral Agreements). Skills: Strategic leadership and management Skills.
Strategic capability, and leadership, problem-solving, and analysis; financial &
budgetary management, administration, people management, risk
management, corporate planning, decision making; Creative, analytical &
innovative thinking, Computer literacy, good report-writing, negotiation, verbal
and written communication, research, basic driving, presentation, project
management, and ability to communicate at all levels, including Provincial
Departments, Senior Management, and Private Sector Organizations.
ENQUIRIES : MS F F Pupuma: Tel No: 033 264 2543 / 082 788 8330
NOTE : Target: Females And People With Disabilities Who Meet The Requirements.
POST 12/109 : DIRECTOR: TRADE AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION REF NO: DIR -
TRADE & INVEST 07 /MARCH 2026
Business Unit: Trade & Sector Development
SALARY : R1 266 714 – R1 492 122 per annum (Level 13) (All-inclusive salary package
to be structured in accordance with the rules of SMS)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : The ideal candidate must have: An appropriate Bachelor of Commerce Degree
in Economics, Business Economics, Trade Economics, or Development
studies at (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA A minimum of five years of
experience at a Middle/Senior Managerial level and extensive experience in
the area of trade and investment promotions. Experience and knowledge of
global, provincial, and national trade and investment issues and their
implications for the provincial economy are also required. Completion of
Nyukela Certificate for entry into the SMS (Senior Management Service) upon
appointment ·A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Key Performance Areas: The successful candidate will be required to Promote
and facilitate rapid business response to mitigate the risks of business closure
and exodus of investors in the province. Manage and facilitate engagements
with social partners to ensure industrial development in the province. Promote
departmental initiatives in relation to multilateral commodity institutions on
trade promotion-related initiatives and agreements. Ensure the development
and implementation of trade and investment policies, strategies, and
programmes, such as risk and integrity management, operation Sukuma
Sakhe/ DDM. Manage human and financial resources of the Directorate.
Essential Knowledge, Skills, And Competencies Required: The successful
candidate must have thorough knowledge of the National Industrial Policy
98
Framework, National Trade and Investment policies, and key government
initiatives in Trade & Investment. Provincial Industrial Development Strategy
(PIDS); National Development Plan. Broad understanding of the public sector
environment. Provincial Growth and Development Plan (PGDP), District
Growth and Development Plan (DGDP), and Foreign Direct Investment. Good
knowledge of the development of strategies and policy implementation
according to agreed norms and standards. Knowledge of the Integrated Policy
Action Plan (IPAP2) and New Growth Path (NGP). Knowledge and
understanding of the regulatory framework for the Public Service, e.g., Public
Service Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations, Public Service Regulations, Labour
Relations Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Skills Development Act, Service Delivery Frameworks, HR
Matters, and relevant statutory provisions. Good stakeholder coordination and
engagement, Sound research, knowledge management, strategic capability,
leadership, problem-solving and analysis, and empowerment. Knowledge and
understanding of Employee Performance and Management Systems,
knowledge of the Security Management Act, Bill of Rights, Community
Outreach, and Public participation. Skills: Ability to communicate at all levels,
including Provincial Departments, Senior Management, and Private Sector
Organizations. Computer literacy, strategic planning, negotiating skills,
programme, and project management principles, report writing, and
presentation skills. Broad knowledge of service delivery innovation, change
management, and financial management. Strategic and leadership, policy
analysis and development, management, and administration, advanced written
and verbal communication, people management, corporate planning, decision
making, research, knowledge management, problem-solving and analysis,
client orientation, and customer focus.
ENQUIRIES : MS F F Pupuma: Tel No: 033 264 2543 / 082 788 8330
NOTE : Target: Females And People With Disabilities Who Meet The Requirements.
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system please assess this site on
(eservices.gov.za)
FOR ATTENTION : Ms SL Ngema
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The Z83 Must Be Completed In
Full. Application must be accompanied by a detailed CV Only the provisionally
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit supporting documents
(certified copies of qualifications, driver’s license etc.) All shortlisted
candidates, including SMS, shall undertake to pre-entry assessments. One will
be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the
post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants need to ensure that they obtain and
submit their foreign qualifications verified with SAQA if shortlisted or
provisionally shortlisted. Non-South African citizens or permanent residency
holders, if provisionally shortlisted, will be required to submit proof of
citizenship The Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of
current /previous employer(s) beside the references provided on CV.
Candidates will be subjected to security screening and a technical assessment.
Under no circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be
accepted. The Department discourages applications that are registered and
will not be held responsible for applications sent via registered mail which are
not collected from the post office. It is the responsibility of the applicant to
ensure that the application reaches the Department timeously. Regrettably, due
to excessive budget cuts, the department is not in a position to meet any travel
subsistence costs relating to recruitment processes, or relocation and
resettlement costs for successful candidates. Should you not hear from the
Department within 3 months of the closing date, please regard your application
as unsuccessful. Candidates who do not comply with the above mentioned will
not be considered. Preferences: African Males, African Females and people
with disabilities who meet the requirements.
99
OTHER POST
POST 12/110 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: KZNPT 26/06
SALARY : R464 634 - R1111 323 per annum.
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 8 LLB qualification or higher. At least 8 years appropriate post-
qualification legal experience in the provision of legal services. Admission as
an attorney or advocate with good standing with the legal practice Council will
be an added advantage. A valid driver’s license and in the case of people with
disabilities who are unable to personally drive, the department will assist them
to meet work related travel commitments. Skills, Knowledge And
Competencies: Sound knowledge of the south African legal system,
Administrative Law and Constitutional law, Public Service Act, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA), Public
Service Regulations, Interpretation of Statutes and Civil Procedure
(Magistrates court practice & High Courts practice). Legal administration skills,
computer literacy, conflict management, negotiation skills, good verbal and
written communication skills, project management, legal research Methods,
ability to write draft legal documents, good inter-personal relations skills,
problem solving skills, accuracy and attention to detail, presentation skills,
policy analysis, research skills, self discipline and ability to work under pressure
with minimum supervision.
DUTIES : Conduct research for specific cases as well as remain abreast with changes in
legislation that affect the department. Represent the department in dispute
resolution cases to ensure a fair outcome for the department. Draft legal advice
and/or opinions for specific cases to ensure the department abides by and
complies with relevant legislation. Preparation of cases for litigation purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr B Gumede Tel No: (033) 897 4544
100
ANNEXURE R
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
The Mpumalanga Department of Education is committed to provide equal opportunities and practices
affirmative action employment. It is the intention of the Department to promote representivity (disability,
gender and race) through the filling of posts and a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment
will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Postal address: The Head of Department, Department of Education, Private
Bag x 11341, Nelspruit, 1200. For Attention: Mr. J Ngomane / Ms. C Mkhatshwa
/ Ms. SR Ndzinisa / Mr. X Sifunda, HR Recruitment Applications may also be
placed (recorded in the register) in the application container located at the
Security Desk, Upper Ground, Ikhamanga Building of the Riverside
Government Complex, Mbombela or uploaded on the following link:
https://forms.gle/o9MBmwvn3xDFCSub8
CLOSING DATE : 30 April 2026
NOTE : Applications should be submitted on the latest Form Z.83, obtainable from any
Public Service Department. Applications must in all cases be accompanied by
a recent updated comprehensive CV only. Only shortlisted candidates for a
post will be required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity
document and driver’s license on or before the day of the interview following
communication from the relevant HR section of the Department. A complete
set of application documents should be submitted separately for every post that
you wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post
description and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No
fax applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they complete
part A, B AND C as well as the declaration and sign form Z83, even if they are
attaching a CV. and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete
and/or unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in
service, please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. The filling
of posts will be done in terms of the Department’s approved Employment Equity
Plan. Due to ongoing internal processes, the Department reserves the right to
withdraw any post at any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the
qualifications of every recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer
of appointment. All short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process
prior to appointment. If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department
of Education within 90 days after the closing date of the advertisement,
applicants must assume that their application was not successful
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/111 : CHIEF QUANTITY SURVEYOR GRADE A: PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION
A3/013
SALARY : R1 099 488 per. annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs. Appointment
will be subject to competency assessment.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : B Degree in Quantity Surveying. Registered as a Professional Quantity
Surveyor with SACQSP. Six years’ relevant post-qualification (after completing
qualification) experience. Planning and organising skills as well as financial
management skills. Research and technical report writing skills. Mobile
equipment operating skills. Programme and project management skills.
Computer literate. Valid Driver’s license. All shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
DUTIES : Manage the delivery of the infrastructure-built environment programmes and
projects in line with the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery Management System
[IDMS]. Prepare the construction procurement strategy and the Infrastructure
Programme Management Plan. Prepare and/or approve Packages/Individual
Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of Professional Service Providers
and Contractors. Contribute to the review and acceptance of the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Plan. Monitor the implementation of
Programmes/Projects. Approve Project Stage reports & designs. Manage the
101
interface between the end-user/community structures and Implementing
Agent[s]. Manage people and budgets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K Mathebula Tel: (013) 766 5408
POST 12/112 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF THE DDG CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
A3/016
SALARY : R896 436 per. annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Management or equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience in the relevant field. A sound understanding of and the ability to
grasp the Public Service policies and regulations, including the Public Service
Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations and education related policies and initiatives.
Valid driver's license. Knowledge of executive office management priorities will
be an added advantage. Excellent leadership-, interpersonal and motivational
skills. Good written and verbal communications skills. Good report writing skills.
Executive office management skills. Comprehensive knowledge of the public
service and education sector related legislation and the legal and labour
implications thereof. Proven ability to plan, manage and delegate as well as
monitor public administrative functions. Innovative, analytical and creative
thinking. Knowledge of budget planning and -control. Applied strategic thinking,
especially in terms of conflict management. Creative assertiveness. Condition:
Appointment will be subject to competency assessment. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Function as Office Manager and co-ordinator in the office of the Branch
Manager (DDG) Chief Financial Officer, in respect of the following core
functions: Finanacial management services and Human Resource
management services. Co-ordination of districts. Design, develop and maintain
an orderly and efficient system of reception, administration, office information
system and archive in the office of the DDG. Receive, acknowledge and
channel all correspondence relating to the office of the DDG, to relevant
components for attention, pend and follow up where necessary. Facilitate the
gathering of information, and prepare and submit reports as required. Co-
ordinate meetings with stakeholders/institutions, accompany the DDG to
meetings, visits and other engagements as and when required, and ensure
adequate research and briefing to facilitate meeting of the DDG's obligations.
Promote sound financial management within the area of responsibility in as far
as budgeting and expenditure for the office of the DDG is concerned. Promote
efficient and effective service delivery to clients, and maintain confidentiality as
required. Develop, manage and maintain efficient linkages between the office
of the Branch Manager and all internal and external departmental stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. TF Ntuli Tel: (013) 766 5438
NOTE : Appointment will be subject to competency assessment. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and technical exercise the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 12/113 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: OFFICE OF THE DDG CURRICULUM A3/017
SALARY : R896 436 per.annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification (NQF 7) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Management or equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience in the relevant field. A sound understanding of and the ability to
grasp the Public Service policies and regulations, including the Public Service
Act, PFMA, Treasury Regulations and education related policies and initiatives.
Valid driver's license. Knowledge of executive office management priorities will
102
be an added advantage. Excellent leadership-, interpersonal and motivational
skills. Good written and verbal communications skills. Good report writing skills.
Executive office management skills. Comprehensive knowledge of the public
service and education sector related legislation and the legal and labour
implications thereof. Proven ability to plan, manage and delegate as well as
monitor public administrative functions. Innovative, analytical and creative
thinking. Knowledge of budget planning and -control. Applied strategic thinking,
especially in terms of conflict management. Creative assertiveness. Condition:
Appointment will be subject to competency assessment. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Function as Office Manager and co-ordinator in the office of the Branch
Manager (DDG) Curriculum, in respect of the following core functions:
Management of General Education and Training- and Further Education and
Training including ECD services. Co-ordination of districts. Design, develop
and maintain an orderly and efficient system of reception, administration, office
information system and archive in the office of the DDG. Receive, acknowledge
and channel all correspondence relating to the office of the DDG, to relevant
components for attention, pend and follow up where necessary. Facilitate the
gathering of information, and prepare and submit reports as required. Co-
ordinate meetings with stakeholders/institutions, accompany the DDG to
meetings, visits and other engagements as and when required, and ensure
adequate research and briefing to facilitate meeting of the DDG's obligations.
Promote sound financial management within the area of responsibility in as far
as budgeting and expenditure for the office of the DDG is concerned. Promote
efficient and effective service delivery to clients, and maintain confidentiality as
required. Develop, manage and maintain efficient linkages between the office
of the Branch Manager and all internal and external departmental stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Mkhwanazi Tel: (013) 766 0992
NOTE : Appointment will be subject to competency assessment. Shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test relevant technical
elements of the job. Following the interview and technical exercise the
selection panel will recommend candidates to attend a generic managerial
competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive on the
implementation of competency-based assessments). The competency
assessment will be testing generic managerial competencies using the
mandated DPSA SMS competency assessment tools.
POST 12/114 : ENGINEER PRODUCTION GRADE A (ELECTRICAL): PROJECTS
IMPLEMENTATION A3/014
SALARY : R879 342 per. annum. (An all-inclusive remuneration package) The package
can be structured according to the individual’s personal needs. Appointment
will be subject to competency assessment.
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : Degree in Engineering. Registration with ECSA as a Professional Engineer.
Registered as a Professional Engineer with ECSA. (Civil/structural engineer or
Electrical or Mechanical Engineer). Three years’ relevant post-qualification
(after completing qualification) experience. Computer literate. Decision
making-, analytical-, planning-, and problem-solving skills. Valid driver’s
license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Assist to manage the delivery of the infrastructure-built environment
programmes and projects in line with the Provincial Infrastructure Delivery
Management System [IDMS]. Prepare the construction procurement strategy
and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan. Prepare and/or approve
Packages/Individual Project Briefs. Participate in the procurement of
Professional Service Providers and Contractors. Contribute to the review and
acceptance of the Infrastructure Programme Implementation Plan. Monitor the
implementation of Programmes/Projects. Approve Project Stage reports &
designs. Manage the interface between the end-user/community structures
and Implementing Agent[s].
ENQUIRIES : Mr. K Mathebula Tel: (013) 766 5408
103
POST 12/115 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ECD CENTRES A3/047
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA in Public Management or
equivalent qualification. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience in the related
field. Competencies: In depth knowledge of the legislation, policies and
practices. Strong policy development and analytical skills. Good presentation
skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet deadlines. Excellent
interpersonal-, written and verbal communication skills. Report writing skills.
Good computer user knowledge and experience is essential. Valid driver's
license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Implementation of policy, programmes and systems regarding Early Childhood
Development (ECD) Centres, as well as the provision of Early Childhood
Education. Ensure the implementation of national/provincial policies as
specified by legislation and/or other policy directives. Ensure the optimum
utilisation of resources via the establishment of timetables in accordance with
prescribed work loads, job descriptions, work plan, attendance registers etc.
Promote a culture of efficiency and quality. Grant approval on applications for
registration, de-registration, conditional registration and renewal of certificates
for ECD Centre’s. Reject of disapprove applications for registration, de-
registration, conditional registration and renewal of certificates for ECD
Centre’s. Handle appeals in cases where the applications for registration, de-
registration, conditional registration and renewal of certificates for ECD
Centre’s have been declined, disapproved or rejected. Verify applications in
terms of laid down qualification requirements and certify to the effect that
applicant meets the minimum requirements. Establish and maintain up-to-date
database on existing ECD Centre’s and their current status. Allocate funding in
line with budget and audit financial records of registered ECD Centre’s. Ensure
Liaise with Provincial Treasury on budget allocated for implementation of the
ECD program. Negotiate with National DBE on salaries/allowances to be paid
to ECD Practitioners. Manage the distribution of conditional grant and ensure
appropriate use thereof. Provide logistical support services for meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. EK Siwela Tel: (013) 766 5922
POST 12/116 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/048
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA in Public Management or
equivalent qualification related to the field. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant
experience. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet deadlines. Strong
interpersonal-, written and verbal communication skills. Report writing skills.
Computer literacy is essential. Valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Support the provincial Co-ordinator in regard of the planning, management and
monitoring of the implementation of the school nutrition programme, food
security, poverty alleviation and sustainable food production. Develop and
maintain policies and interventions regarding nutrition and food security. Foster
relations between the respective communities, learners and the private sector
and assess the impact that these programmes have on these units. Develop
systems that would assure quality regarding the implementation of the
mentioned programmes. Administer, control and monitor grants allocated to the
various programmes. Maintain a database and information system. Maintain a
sound financial and provisioning system. Analyse reports from districts and
table recommendations to Management. Prepare management information
and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. SS Maluleke Tel: (013) 766 5852
104
POST 12/117 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/049
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Hoërskool Vaalrivier (MID), Standerton
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MP Nkosi, Tel (017) 801 5077, Ms G Motau, Tel (017) 801 5097
POST 12/118 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/050
SALARY : R476 367 per.annum
CENTRE : Jim van Tonder Special School (MID), Bethal
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MP Nkosi, Tel (017) 801 5077, Ms G Motau, Tel (017) 801 5097
POST 12/119 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/051
SALARY : R476 367 per. annum
CENTRE : Marietjie Special School (SID), Secunda
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
105
ENQUIRIES : Mr MP Nkosi, Tel (017) 801 5077, Ms G Motau, Tel (017) 801 5097
POST 12/120 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/052
SALARY : R476 367 per. annum
CENTRE : Osizweni Special School (SID), Leslie
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MP Nkosi, Tel (017) 801 5077, Ms G Motau, Tel (017) 801 5097
POST 12/121 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/053
SALARY : R476 367 per.annum
CENTRE : Mantjedi Special School (SID), Pankop Hammanskraal
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/122 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/054
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Masinakane Special School (SID), Mbibane
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
106
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/123 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/055
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Platorand Special School (MID), Belfast
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/124 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/056
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Thanduxolo Special School (SID), Emalahleni
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/125 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/057
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : WH De Klerk Special School (MID), Emalahleni
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
107
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/126 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/058
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Wolvenkop Specal School (SID), Bronkhorstspruit
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/127 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/059
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Silindokuhle Special School (SID),Mangweni, Kwalugedlane
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JT Dlamini, Tel (013) 766 0508
POST 12/128 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/060
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Kamagugu Inclusive School (SID), Kamagugu, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
108
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JT Dlamini, Tel (013) 766 0508
POST 12/129 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACT GR 1: SEN SCHOOL / BOARDING SCHOOL
A3/061
SALARY : R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Estralita Special School (SID),Mashishing
REQUIREMENTS : A Diploma/Degree in nursing or equivalent qualification as well as a post basic
qualification with a duration of at least 1 year in curative skills in Primary Health
Care accredited with the SANC. Registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse. Knowledge of relevant legal requirements for nursing. Sufficient
credible experience. Knowledge of Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive
Education. A PHC qualification will serve as an added advantage. Computer
literacy. A valid driver's license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Identify and monitor health care needs of learners. Accompany and arrange
medical treatment for learners. Render day to day nursing care services.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards as determined by health facilities. Display a concern for
learners, promote and advocate proper support. Facilitate a wide range of
medical care for short-, medium- and long term medical needs of learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr T Magoane, Tel (013) 766 7410
POST 12/130 : SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR GR 1: ECD CENTRES A3/063
SALARY : R397 119 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized Bachelors Degree in social work. Seven years appropriate
experience in social work after registration as Social Worker. Registration with
the South African Council for Social Service Professions. In-depth knowledge
of psycho-social interventions, Education White Paper 6 on Inclusive Education
as well as diverse barriers to learning and development. Computer literacy. A
valid driver’s license. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Administer grant approval on applications for registration, de-registration,
conditional registration and renewal of certificates for ECD Centre’s. Reject of
disapprove applications for registration, de-registration, conditional registration
and renewal of certificates for ECD Centre’s. Handle appeals in cases where
the applications for registration, de-registration, conditional registration and
renewal of certificates for ECD Centre’s have been declined, disapproved or
rejected. Verify applications in terms of laid down qualification requirements
and certify to the effect that applicant meets the minimum requirements.
Establish and maintain up-to-date database on existing ECD Centre’s and their
current status.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. EK Siwela Tel: (013) 766 5922
POST 12/131 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/064
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Excellent administration, organisational and financial
management skills. Good interpersonal, verbal and written communication
skills. Credible management skills and experience. Strong ability to analyse,
interpret and draft policies. Proven computer literacy. Valid driver's license. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
109
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Manage and co-ordinate all administration services in regard of the school
nutrition programme, food security and poverty alleviation. Administer, control
and monitor grants allocated to the various programmes. Maintain database(s)
and information system. Maintain a sound financial and provisioning system.
Prepare management information and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. SS Maluleke Tel: (013) 766 5852
POST 12/132 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/065
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MP Nkosi, Tel (017) 801 5077, Ms G Motau, Tel (017) 801 5097
POST 12/133 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/066
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Gert Sibande District Office, Ermelo
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
110
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MP Nkosi, Tel (017) 801 5077, Ms G Motau, Tel (017) 801 5097
POST 12/134 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/067
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, KwaMhlanga
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/135 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/068
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Nkangala District Office, KwaMhlanga
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
111
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Masilela, Tel (013) 947 1816 / Ms LS Malatjie, Tel (013) 947 1725
POST 12/136 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/069
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Kanyamazane
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JT Dlamini, Tel (013) 766 0508
POST 12/137 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/070
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
112
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TZ Magoane, Tel (013) 766 7410
POST 12/138 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/071
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TZ Magoane, Tel (013) 766 7410
POST 12/139 : NUTRITION MONITOR: NUTRITION PROGRAMMES A3/072
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Bohlabela District Office, Bushbuckridge
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA or equivalent
qualification in the field plus two years sufficient credible experience.
Competencies: Knowledge of the set policies, legislation and operations
related to the school nutrition programme. Committed customer and service
orientation. Proven typing skills. Planning and organising skills. Ability to meet
deadlines. Strong interpersonal-, accounting and quality auditing skills. Well-
developed written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation- and
report writing skills. Good numerical and problem-solving skills. Ability to work
independently. Valid driver's license. Willingness to travel extensively.
Computer literacy is essential. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Oversee the delivery/rendering of services regarding the school nutrition
programme. Execute quality control regarding the products and service
provided for school nutrition. Measure progress in relation to carefully defined
milestones. Report unsatisfactory performance and take corrective steps
where necessary. Develop, maintain and monitor a school feeding register.
Report irregular use of resources. Represent the Department effectively in all
aspects of the school nutrition programme. Ensure the promotion of healthy
relationships between the suppliers of services and products on the one hand
and the employees and consumers on the other. Cultivate a culture of
awareness amongst the various communities in regard of the school nutrition
113
programme. Design and inplement interventions aimed at ensuring the
sustainability of the school nutrition programme. Compile monthly reports
providing the required statistics and the expenditure incurred, for record
keeping purposes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TZ Magoane, Tel (013) 766 7410
POST 12/140 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CURRICULUM BRANCH MANAGER'S OFFICE
A3/073
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF6) as recognised by SAQA in Public
Management/Business Management or equivalent qualification related to the
field. Minimum of 2 years’ relevant experience. Competencies: Excellent
computer skills. Good typing skills. Administrative and organisational skills.
Sound interpersonal relations. Language proficiency (both verbal and written).
Ability to work independently. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Ensure the smooth running of the Senior Manager's office. Keep the Senior
Manager's diary and deal with phone calls. Provide administrative and logistical
support to the Senior Manager in question. Provide support in the management
of the budget and monthly cash flow statements. Provide general office
support, including creating and managing a register of incoming and outgoing
documents, creating and managing a filing and tracking system, convening and
providing support at meetings and workshops, drafting letters, minutes and
memos as required, ordering equipment and stationery, and arranging travel
and accommodation whenever required. Ensure office and documents security
in terms of the Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS). Deal with
queries on different aspects of the work of the Senior Manager's office.
Understand applicable prescripts, policies and procedures of the work
environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the Senior Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. J Mkhwanazi Tel: (013) 766 0992
POST 12/141 : HOUSEHOLD AID: SCHOOL JOURNEY SERVICES A3/074
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : No formal qualification is required for this position, but appropriate work
experience and/or knowledge in regard of the core duties may serve as a
recommendation. Literacy may be an advantage. Competencies: Basic
knowledge of the functionality, capabilities and limitations of relevant cleaning
equipment, materials, methods and application. Ability to utilize a limited range
of basic cleaning equipment, methods and materials to keep specific work
areas clean and tidy. The ability, health and energy to perform strenuous tasks
that require hard physical labour. Routine problem-solving skills. Routine
planning and organising skills. Good initiative. Adaptability to working
conditions. Thoroughness, honesty, integrity and the willingness to work hard,
coupled with work pride. Appropriate communication skills. Sound
interpersonal relations. Ability to work in a team. Ability to work under pressure.
All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
DUTIES : Clean buildings, facilities and other institutional structures as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. PN Mbatha Tel: (013) 766 5844
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
114
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z 83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or
unsigned applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service,
please indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing
internal processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at
any time. The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the CORRECT references
when applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 DAYS after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please Note The
Department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the posts were posted in the Public Service
Vacancy Circular 10 of 2026 dated 20 March 2026, the posts of Assistant
Director: Environmental Health Grade 1 (Bushbuckridge Sub-district (Malaria
Control Programme) with Ref. No.: MPDoH/Mar/26/1238 and Occupational
Therapist Grade 1: Mental Health NHI (Provincial Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
with Ref. No.: MPDoH/Mar/26/1246 has been withdrawn.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/142 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: THERAPEUTIC AND MEDICAL SUPPORT
GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDoH/Apr/26/01
(Re-Advertisement)
SALARY : R638 856 – R707 625 per annum
CENTRE : Ehlanzeni District Office, Mbombela (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Diploma / Degree in Medical Technology in
the category Clinical Pathology or Blood Transfusion that allows with the
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
(2026). A minimum of three (3) years appropriate experience in the relevant
profession after registration with the Health Profession Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as independent practice (where applicable) of which five (5) years
must be appropriate experience in Management. Knowledge of the Health
Care Act, PFMA and its regulations, PPPFA, Public service Act and LRA. Good
interpersonal skills and report writing skills. Skills in facilitation and project/
programme management. A valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Provide necessary support to the district leadership in formulating appropriate
local district policies and guidelines regarding economical, effective and
efficient utilization of both Laboratory and Blood transfusion services. Liaise
with key partners in establishing guidelines for quality institutional services.
Establish reporting systems. Keep records and ensure standard adherence as
part of Service Level Agreement management. Ensure the appropriate
utilization of the Laboratory and Blood products by developing and
implementing a continuous learning programme at all levels of care.
Coordinate, audit and monitor the functionality of hospital transfusion and
115
laboratory committees in the District. Advice the District hospitals on any
Clinical Pathology and Blood transfusion related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 12/143 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDoH/Apr/26/02
(Re-Advertisement)
SALARY : R638 856 – R6707 625 per annum
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Sub-District (Malaria Control Programme)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent qualification plus appropriate
qualification that allows for the required registration with the Health
Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in Environmental Health / Public
Health. A minimum of three (3) years appropriate experience in the relevant
profession after registration Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as independent practice (where applicable) of which five (5) years
must be appropriate experience in management. Extensive experience in
malaria control, disease surveillance, outbreak management, vector control
activities, and clear demonstration of monitoring and evaluation. The ability to
coordinate multi-disciplinary and sectoral activities. Good communication skills
and Computer literacy. A valid driver's licence. Must be registered with the
HPCSA as an Independent Environmental Health Practitioner. Must have
strategic capability, Management, and leadership. Programme and project
management skills. Financial management skills. Change and knowledge
management skills. Problem-solving and analysis skills. People management
and empowerment. Contract management skills. Able to work independently
and under pressure. Understanding legislative frameworks and related policies
in the health public sector and other prescripts.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of National and Provincial policies and guidelines.
Develop, implement, and monitor policies, guidelines, norms, and standards in
line with the relevant World Health Organisation Integrated Vector Control
management guidelines and National policies and regulations. Assist in
Operational planning, microplanning and drafting of the business plan for the
malaria programme. Plan and monitor the seasonal Indoor Residual Spraying
Programme. Facilitate and support parasite and insecticide resistance to
inform operations and as an early warning system for the region. Identify areas
that are at risk of transmission due to the presence of vectors and parasites
and continue monitoring in low-risk areas. Facilitate and monitor spray quality
during the spray season. Plan and implement vector control logistics during the
malaria season and outbreak, and for epidemic response. Plan for community
engagement, health promotion, and malaria messaging. Asset management
and Stock control of insecticides and management of information being
captured on the Malaria Information System. Develop and implement
methodologies, policies, systems, and procedures with particular reference to
malaria vector research; identify gaps and develop appropriate interventions
for malaria vector research needs; continuous professional development to
keep abreast with new technologies and procedures; conduct applied research
to generate information and knowledge aimed at developing appropriate
technology to address malaria vectors and parasites; dissemination of
information to different stakeholders.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 12/144 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PN-A5): GENERAL REF NO:
MPDoH/Apr/26/03
SALARY : R549 192 - R629 121 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice 425, (i.e. Diploma /
116
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse. A minimum of seven (7) years of
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing (2026). A Diploma /
Degree in Nursing Administration and Management will be an added
advantage. Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes and other relevant legal framework such as Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Patient Right Charter, Batho Pele
Principles, Public Service Regulations and Labour Relations Act etc.
DUTIES : Coordination of optimal, holistic nursing care with set standards and within a
Professional / legal framework. Manage effectively the supervision and
utilization of resources. Provision of effective support to nursing services.
Maintain professional growth / ethical standards and self-development. Display
a concern for patients, promoting, advocating and facilitating proper treatment
and care and ensuring that the unit adheres to the principles of Batho Pele and
patient centered Nursing care. Ensure clinical nursing practice by the nursing
team in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 12/145 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 2 (PN-B2): PHC REF. NO:
MPDoH/Apr/26/04
SALARY : R583 989 – R723 954 per annum
CENTRE : Mbombela Mobile (White River) (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026). Minimum of
fourteen (14) years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. At least ten (10) of the
period referred to above must be appropriate / recognisable experience in the
specific speciality after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification, with a
duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms of Government
Notice R212 specialty in Primary Health Care Science. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Primary Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
117
POST 12/146 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL OFFICER (20 SESSIONS) REF NO:
MPDoH/Apr/26/09
SALARY : Grade 1: R501 280 per annum
Grade 2: R572 000 per annum
Grade 3: R661 440 per annum
CENTRE : H A Grove Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be
required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and team work and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: No experience
required after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). Minimum of 1 year relevant experience after
registration with a recognised Foreign Health Professions and / or the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign qualified
employees. Grade 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of
six (6) years relevant experience after registration with a recognised foreign
health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Grade 3: A minimum
of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant
experience after registration with a recognised foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice)
for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences
Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and team work and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to
manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Sound clinical knowledge with regard to medicine. Ability to deal with all
medical emergencies. Knowledge of ethical medical practice. Assist with
clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Glory Mokone Tel No: (013) 766 3340 / Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo (013)
766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013) 766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766
3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766
3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766 3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel
No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 12/147 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): TRAUMA & EMERGENCY
REF. NO: MPDoH/Apr/26/05
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Waterval Boven Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Degree/
Diploma in Nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026). A post basic nursing qualification with
of at least 1year, accredited with the SANC in terms Government Notice R212
in Trauma & Emergency Nursing Science. A minimum of four (4) years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Ability to function
118
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills. Demonstrate an understanding of legislation and related legal and ethical
nursing practices.
DUTIES : Perform clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice of
Trauma & Emergency Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stakeholders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability to prioritize, coordinate
activities of patient management according to protocols. Able to plan and
organize own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing
care. Participate in staff development and performance management. Report
patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work
effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse intellectual, cultural,
racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 12/148 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): PSYCHIATRIC REF. NO:
MPDoH/Apr/26/06
SALARY : R476 367 – R559 548 per annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) that allows registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse and Orthopaedic (2026), a post-basic nursing qualification,
with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the SANC in terms of
Government Notice R212 specialty in Psychiatric Nursing Science. Minimum
of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to function
independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills,
problem solving and decision-making skills. Good supervisory and teaching
skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Psychiatric Unit. Ensure effective and efficient management of
resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and standards.
Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and implement patient
care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care in accordance with
the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor and health care.
Implement constructive working relations with nurses and other stake holders.
Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control policies. Ensure that
the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Able to plan and organize
your own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care.
Participate in staff development and performance management. Report patient
safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively,
co-operatively amicably with people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or
religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
119
POST 12/149 : SPEECH THERAPIST & AUDIOLOGIT GRADE 1 REF. NO:
MPDoH/Apr/26/07
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per.annum
CENTRE : Ermelo Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
Speech Therapist and Audiology. Current registration with the HPCSA as
Speech Therapist and Audiology. Grade 1 (2026): SA qualified employees:
none experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession
(where applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service
as required in SA. Foreign qualified employees: one (1) year relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where
applicable) in respect of employees who performed Community Service as
required in SA. Knowledge, Skills Training and Competencies Required: Good
verbal and written communication skills. Good interpersonal relations. Problem
solving skills. Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety Act. Ability to perform
basic quality assurance tests. Computer literacy. Valid driver’s licence.
DUTIES : Render effective patient centered speech therapy and audiology service for in
and out- Patients in adherence to the scope of practice and health protocols.
To with colleagues, relieve as and when the need arises, and to work closely
with the interdisciplinary team members. Carry out delegated duties to
participate in student training, supervision and performance evaluation.
Implement and maintain the quality assurance and National Core standard and
norms at departmental level. Adhere to provincial, hospital and departmental
policies, procedures, guidelines and regulations. Perform record keeping, data
collection, assist with budget control and assets managements. Contribute and
participate in professional development of self-colleagues and members of the
interdisciplinary team members. Participate in research projects of the
department. Participate in quality assurance methods and CPD activities.
Communicate effectively with all stakeholders. Exercise acre with all
consumables and equipment. Ensure adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and
Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 12/150 : OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1: MENTAL HEALTH NHI REF. NO:
MPDoH/Apr/26/08
(24 Months Contract)
(Re-Advertisement)
SALARY : R397 233 - R454 191 per annum
CENTRE : Provincial Office, Mbombela, (Nelspruit)
QUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus appropriate qualification that allows for the
registration with the HPCSA in the relevant profession (where applicable).
Current registration with the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (2026)
(Independent Practice). A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the HPCSA
as an Occupational Therapist (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as an Occupational Therapist (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Clinical experience in general adult
and pediatric assessment and treatment is required. Knowledge in the fields of
mental health, vocational rehabilitation, neurology, hand injuries, burns,
amputations, developmental delays, etc. is expected. Clinical experience in
these fields will be beneficial.
DUTIES : To provide optimal and evidence-based occupational therapy in individual and
group settings for patients in, out and clinics. To administer standardized and
clinical assessments to patients requiring FCEs and other clinical reports. To
perform and complete administrative functions including record keeping,
statistics, participate in various meetings and awareness campaigns. To plan
for and participate in internal and external audits and ensure departmental
standards and effective service delivery. To participate in the performance
120
management and training and development programs within the department.
To supervise junior level staff. To supervise allocated students and learners.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
POST 12/151 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING REF.
NO: MPDoH/Apr/26/10
SALARY : R324 384 – R382 107 per annum
CENTRE : Msogwaba Clinic (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing)
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the South African Nursing
Council (SANC) as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently
and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem
solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi (013)
766 3103 / Ms. Nomsa Maphanga (013) 766 3207 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi (013)
766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi Maseko (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni (013) 766
3087 and IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za.
121
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMNISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action Employer. It is our intention to promote
representatively (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts. All
candidates whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representatively will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting the relevant reference should be forwarded as follows:
The Head of the Department, Post To: Department of Economic Development
and Tourism P/Bag X6108, Kimberley, 8300 or Hand Deliver to: MetLife
Towers, (Post Office Building), T Floor (Registry Office), Post Office Building,
Kimberley or Email applications to: dedathra@ncpg.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : MS. M. Musa
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications for employment to the
address specified above. The application must include a duly completed and
signed new Form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on
the internet at https://www.dpsa.gov.za/, and a detailed Curriculum Vitae CV;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please note a separate application is required for each position
applied for. Applications received using the incorrect application for
employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each application for employment
form must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant. Failure to
fully complete, initial and sign this form will lead to disqualification of the
application during the selection process. Applicants are not required to
submit/attach copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the new (Z83) form and detailed curriculum vitae
only. The provision of certified documents will only be required from shortlisted
candidates for submission on or before the day of the interview following a
formal communication from Human Resources unit. In instances where
applicants are in possession of a foreign qualification, it is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and only submit proof of such evaluation upon
being shortlisted for a post. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other will be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit Holders will be required to
submit a copy of their Permanent Residence Permits only if shortlisted.
Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned instruction/
requirements, as well as applications received late will not be considered. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the above
post/s. Applications, including those submitted via registered mail must reach
the department before 16:00 on the day of the closing date. Incomplete
applications, or applications received after the closing date will be disqualified.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within 3 months of the closing date of this advertisement,
please accept that your application was unsuccessful. Please note that suitable
candidates will be subjected to a technical assessment as well as satisfactory
personnel suitability checks (criminal record check, citizenship verification,
financial-asset record check, qualification/study verification and previous
employment verification. Successful candidates will also be subjected to a
security clearance process. Women and persons with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will be required to sign the
performance agreement within three months from the date of assumption of
duty. It will also be required that the successful candidate declare to the EA
particulars of all registrable financial interests. Short-listed candidates will be
expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. The successful
candidate will be appointed subject to positive results of the security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Appointment of these positions will be provisional, pending the issue of security
clearance. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer.
The Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment
decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of this post(s).
122
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/152 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR – ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
NCDEDAT/2026/01
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09) (All-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a relevant tertiary qualification at NQF 7
(bachelor’s degree) in Accounting/Finance/Business Administration. 3-years
related financial or asset management supervisory experience. A valid driver’s
license. Skills & Knowledge: In-depth knowledge of the Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Division of
Revenue Act, Modified Cash Standard, Accounting Manuals, Treasury
Instruction Notes, Government financial systems operations. Report writing
skills, people management skills, research and analytical skills, conflict
management skill, problem-solving skills, communication skills, financial
management and policy development and interpretation. Up to date of latest
legislation and changes of accounting treatment of transactions. Be a self-
starter in processes of Asset Management.
DUTIES : Monitor and review the capturing of all physical (moveable and immovable)
assets in the physical asset management registers. Receipt of all moveable
assets, perform quantity and quality control, allocation of inventory and bar
code to assets, capturing of information in the relevant registers. Provide asset
and inventory management services. Conduct physical asset verification with
reconciliation of asset count data. Perform asset disposal process within the
department. Compile of Asset management submissions for asset related
matters and letters of communication. Monitor and review the allocation of
assets to asset holders, determination of the asset allocation according to
furniture and equipment policy and procedures of the department, capturing of
asset information on the inventory list (room list) of the asset holder, issuing of
asset inventory list (room list) list to asset holder, the delivery of assets to the
asset holder, approval of the moveable asset register updates. Oversee and
review the monitoring of assets in accordance with the relevant policy and
procedures. Monitor assets for compliance with asset control prescripts,
monitoring assets for physical condition, utilisation functionality and financial
performance, monitoring the performance of asset verification according to
prescribed time frames, compile reports on the state of assets. Promote correct
implementation of sound asset management practices by informing, guiding
and advising departmental employees on asset management matters; and
contributing to the design and development of asset management systems,
policies, strategic and annual physical asset management planning. Supervise
employees to ensure sound physical asset management. This would inter alia,
entail the following, general supervision of employees, allocate duties and do
quality control of the work delivered by supervisees, advice and lead all aspects
of the work, manage performance, conduct and discipline of supervisees.
Ensure that all supervisees are trained and developed to be able to deliver
work of the required standard efficiently and effectively. Develop, implement
and monitor work systems and processes to ensure efficient functioning,
address enquiries and provide advice and guidance on asset allocation and
control. Compile asset additions monthly reconciliations and monthly
compliance report. Compile asset quarterly financial statements notes and
annual financial statement notes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. F Booysen Tel No: (053) 839 4023
POST 12/153 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING REF NO:
NCDEDAT/2026/02
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09) (All-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of NQF 7 (bachelor’s degree) in Financial
Management/ Financial Accounting or related fields. 3 years Admin Officer/
State Accountant within the Financial Accounting environment. Skills &
Knowledge: In-depth knowledge of the Treasury Regulations, Public Service
Regulations, Public Finance Management Act, Division of Revenue Act,
Modified Cash Standard, Accounting Manuals, Treasury Instruction Notes,
Government financial systems (BAS and LOGIS) and SCOA. Report writing
skills, people management skills, research and analytical skills, conflict
123
management skill, financial management and policy development and
interpretation.
DUTIES : Ensure that payments due to suppliers are settled within 30 days according to
PFMA and Treasury Regulations and expenditure is correctly classified and
captured. Ensure that revenue collected is recorded and reported according to
PFMA, Treasury Regulations and DORA. Review bank reconciliation of the
department (Ensure that all exceptions are cleared and required controls are
implemented). Oversee the petty cash process. Monitoring the departmental
cash flow daily. Oversee the identification and accurate recording of debts
owed to the department. Ensure timeous submission of the note to the IFS/AFS
and assist in the compilation of IFS/AFS. Ensure all interdepartmental
receivables/payables are attended to timeously. Supervise employees to
ensure an effective financial accounting service. This would, inter alia, entail
the following: General supervision of employees to allocate duties and do
quality control of the work delivered by supervisees. Advice and lead
supervisees regarding all aspects of the work. Manage performance, conduct
and discipline of supervisees. Ensure that all supervisees are trained and
developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard efficiently and
effectively. Developed, implement and monitor work systems and processes to
ensure efficient and effective functioning.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M Gooiman Tel No: (053) 839 4030
POST 12/154 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: RECORDS, SECURITY AND FACILITIES
MANAGEMENT REF NO: NCDEDAT/2026/03
SALARY : R468 459 - R551 823 per annum (Level 09) (All-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Kimberley Office
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of NQF 6 tertiary qualification in Public
Administration or Public Management/Administration. 3-4 years’ admin officer
experience within the Public Service Records/Facilities/Security Management
environment. and A valid driver's license. Skills & Knowledge: Knowledge of
Security, Facilities and Records Management. Knowledge of the National
Archives and Records Services of South African Act of 1996. Knowledge of
relevant legislation government processes. Procedures and policies. Technical
skills. Planning and organising skills. Communication skills (both verbal &
written). Interpersonal/stakeholders’ skills. Analytical skills. Problem-solving
skills. Negotiation skills. Conflict management. Policy formulation, Project
Management.
DUTIES : Coordinate departmental records management services: Attending to clients
and escalation of enquiries, Advise the department on nature of information
that can be provided to the public through PAIA, Opening and closing files
according to the record classification system, Ensuring compliance with
statutory regulations (e.g., POPIA, PAIA, National Archives).Managing both
physical and digital records (EDRMS). Developing retention schedules and
security protocols. Filing/ storage, tracing (electronically/ manually) and
retrieval of documents and files, Ensure all records are kept safe, Keep records
of archived documents, Ensure a systematic disposal programme is in place
and assist with disposal of documents, Scanning files for electronic database
purposes, Organizing and packing files for archives and distribution,
Development of records management policy and Standard Operating
Procedures. Facilitating effective and efficient departmental facilities
management services: Organizing and allocating parking spaces for
departmental officials. Attending to complaints regarding maintenance issues
of departmental buildings, liaising with relevant service providers, landlords
and other relevant stakeholders to resolve maintenance issues. Sourcing office
accommodation for departmental officials as well as interns when need arises.
Monitoring the implementation of repair and maintenance activities within the
department Implement policies, protocols, norms, standards and strategies
relating to Facility Management. Coordinating auxiliary services within the
department: Provision of cleaning services for all departmental buildings
Inspecting the quality and quantity of cleaning materials provided by service
providers to ensure it is up to standard and in accordance with specifications.
Hygiene and pest control services for the department. Rendering security
support services within the department: Rendering screening and vetting
processes within the department, Monitoring the biometric access system of
the department, attending meetings relating to security activities and
requirements within the department. Provision of general management within
124
the Security, Records management and Facilities Component: Supervision of
subordinates, Delegation of work, leave management administration, enabling
staff development and ensuring proper performance management, Maintaining
discipline within the component according to relevant departmental policies
and prescripts
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Tlhalogang Tel No: (053) 839 4088
125
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/155 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT (MEDICAL) GRADE 1: (PSYCHIATRY: CHILD AND
ADOLESCENT 10 BED UNIT)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel to meet service needs. It will be expected of the Head: Clinical Unit to
work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so
demand. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in
teaching, training and supervision of students, Registrars and Medical Staff.
Appropriate experience in conducting and supervising research. Demonstrated
experience of engagement at all levels of care. Appropriate management
experience of clinical services as well as supervisory experience. Recognised
academic achievement and leadership as demonstrated in further
qualifications, publication and teaching portfolio.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Support and influence clinical and corporate
governance in the Eastern Catchment Area and within the General Allied
Psychiatry (GAP) and Child and Adolescents services CHAMS of Lentegeur.
Lead and manage Clinical Service Delivery within the broader sphere of the
delivery of effective healthcare services with the available resources as per the
mandate and AOP for the Province and Lentegeur Psychiatric Hospital, and
the Eastern Catchment Area. Lead Clinical Service Delivery within the broader
sphere of the delivery of effective healthcare services with the available
resources as per the mandate and AOP for the Province and Lentegeur
including the Eastern Area. Assure Clinical Governance and Quality in the
provision of safe and desired quality patient care as per quality assurance
indicators, incorporating the highest standards of service delivery, research
and teaching (Psychiatric and MDT) at LGH and the Eastern Catchment Area.
Take custodianship of the development of an integrated academic supportive
unit as defined by the regulations of the affiliated University of Stellenbosch
regulations which oversees the provision of related teaching and research
outputs. Conduct relevant research and have your own research and teaching
portfolio. Head the Clinical Psychiatric services at Lentegeur Hospital and
provide supervisory oversight of the Lentegeur Hospital team. Provide clinical
leadership to the Eastern Catchment Area. Take responsibility for the
development and maintenance of high quality, evidence-based psychiatric
assessment, treatment, and rehabilitation programmes within the institution
and the catchment area. Provide an effective psychiatric consultation service
and outreach to the Eastern Area. Be accountable to the CEO of Lentegeur
Hospital for the performance of clinical services, clinical governance, and the
126
management of human and financial resources. Perform clinical and
operational duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Sillence, Tel No: (021) 370-1401
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/156 : HEAD CLINICAL UNIT GRADE 1 (MEDICAL: PSYCHIATRY) (PSYCHIATRIC
AND MEDICAL SERVICES)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R2 084 754 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Lentegeur Hospital (This is a joint appointment with University of Cape Town &
Western Catchment Area)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Experience:
A minimum of 3 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after
registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Psychiatry. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel to meet service needs. It will be expected of the Head: Clinical Unit to
work commuted overtime, limited to 12 hours, if operational requirements so
demand. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in
teaching, training and supervision of students, Registrars and Medical Staff.
Appropriate experience in conducting and supervising research. Demonstrated
experience of engagement at all levels of care. Appropriate management
experience of clinical services as well as supervisory experience. Recognised
academic achievement and leadership as demonstrated in further
qualifications, publication and teaching portfolio.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Support and influence clinical and corporate
governance in the Western Catchment Area and within the General Allied
Psychiatry (GAP) and Intellectual Disability Services IDS of Lentegeur. Lead
and manage Clinical Service Delivery within the broader sphere of the delivery
of effective healthcare services with the available resources as per the
mandate and AOP for the Province and Lentegeur Psychiatric Hospital, and
the Western Catchment Area. Lead Clinical Service Delivery within the broader
sphere of the delivery of effective healthcare services with the available
resources as per the mandate and AOP for the Province and Lentegeur
including the Western Area. Assure Clinical Governance and Quality in the
provision of safe and desired quality patient care as per quality assurance
indicators, incorporating the highest standards of service delivery, research
and teaching (Psychiatric and MDT) at LGH and the Western Catchment Area.
Take custodianship of the development of an integrated academic supportive
unit as defined by the regulations of the affiliated University of Cape Town
regulations which oversees the provision of related teaching and research
outputs. Conduct relevant research and have your own research and teaching
portfolio. Head the Clinical Psychiatric services at Lentegeur Hospital and
provide supervisory oversight of the Lentegeur Hospital team. Provide clinical
leadership to the Western Catchment Area. Take responsibility for the
development and maintenance of high quality, evidence-based psychiatric
assessment, treatment, and rehabilitation programmes within the institution
and the catchment area. Provide an effective psychiatric consultation service
and outreach to the Western Area. Be accountable to the CEO of Lentegeur
Hospital for the performance of clinical services, clinical governance, and the
management of human and financial resources. Perform clinical and
operational duties as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Silence, Tel No: (021) 370-1401
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
127
OTHER POSTS
POST 12/157 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (FAMILY PHYSICIAN)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 341 855 per annum
Grade 2: R1 531 032 per annum
Grade 1: R1 773 222 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured
according to the individual's personal needs).
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist: Family Physician. Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Family Medicine.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 year’s appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised foreign health
professional council in respect of a foreign qualified employee) as a Medical
Specialist, Family Physician. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with HPCSA (or a
recognised foreign health professional council in respect of a foreign qualified
employee) as a Medical Specialist, Family Physician. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to perform full commuted overtime. Valid driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good leadership, clinical and
communication skills. Ability to lead a multidisciplinary team in delivering
healthcare at hospital level. Conflict resolution skills. Ability to design and
implement pathways, guidelines and quality improvement initiatives. Ability to
perform under pressure. Good interpersonal, communication and
organizational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word/Excel/PowerPoint/Outlook).
Participate in on-call rosters.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Provide clinical training and teaching staff at False
Bay Hospital and joint staff with UCT. Co-lead clinical governance. Clinical lead
for the Theatre and In-patient wards as primary consultant. Clinical lead for the
Emergency Centre as the primary consultant. People Management of Medical
Officers, Family Medicine Registrars and Allied Health Professionals.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Adamson, Tel No: (021) 832-5265
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessments. Candidates who are
not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply.
Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof
of application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/158 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL: UROLOGY)
(5-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Willingness to
work overtime when required. FCS (SA) part 1A. A certificate of ATLS and
Basic Surgical Skills course completed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge, expertise and experience with regards to providing medical
services in Urology. Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since
128
obtaining the degree of MBChB and after completion of internal rotations.
Ability to work in a team under pressure. Research experience.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Teaching. Research. Leadership. Clinical Service:
Patient Care. Clinical Service: Operative Clinical Governance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Alexander, email: rabia.alexander@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The
Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of Cape
Town according to the yearbook and guidelines.” Groote Schuur Hospital has
adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform.
Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this
platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals.
This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset
Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George
Provincial Hospital. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated
registration requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be
considered for appointment on condition that proof of application for
registration to register with the relevant council and proof of payment of the
prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before
the day of the interview. This concession is only applicable on health
professionals who apply for the first time for registration in a specific category
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status). Consideration will be given to existing employees who are
already on higher salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as
personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as
a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 5 years. Employees in
service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be
required to resign after completion of their registrarship should they not be
successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should registration with the HEI
as a student be discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also
discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations.
Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/159 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (DERMATOLOGY)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Research experience. Post community service experience
in Internal Medicine on an equivalent clinical platform. Knowledge, expertise
and experience with regards to providing medical services in assessment,
diagnosis and treatment of inpatients and outpatients. Appropriate and
sufficient clinical experience since obtaining the degree of MBChB.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Clinical Service Provision. Participate in the Teaching
Programme. Effective Clinical Administration in patient records and patient
management. Research and Professional Development (incl. completion of
MMED).
ENQUIRIES : Prof R Lehloenya, Tel No: (021) 404-3376
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Appointment
as Registrar will be for a maximum contract period of 4 years. Registrars will
function across health facilities, as per an agreed programme. Consideration
129
will be given to existing employees who are already on higher salary packages
to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to
receive pay progression. Appointment as Registrar will be on contract. Groote
Schuur Hospital has adopted the department’s ecosystem framing of its
training platform. Accordingly, all registrar appointments may be called upon to
work across this platform and may include rotations at Metro West and Rural
East hospitals. This includes Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital,
New Somerset Hospital, Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and
George Provincial Hospital. Please ensure that you attach an updated CV.
Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits as
Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship should
they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. The Department of
Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity. Candidates with
disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this regard will be
appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will be identified
as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a representative
Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference will be given to
SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document. Registrars will
be required to register as post-graduates with Stellenbosch University/
University of Cape Town according to the yearbook and guidelines. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration
with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for change in
registration status)
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/160 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY) (2 POSTS)
(4-Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Valid ACLS
Certificate. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge, and experience in
diagnostic workup and management of inpatients and outpatients, including
rational prescribing. Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience since
obtaining the degree of MBChB Research methodologies. Teamwork skills.
Computer literacy
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Clinical service provision. Rational prescribing best
practice. Provision of evidence-based clinical advice on pharmacotherapy,
including assessment and management of drug interactions, medicine use in
renal and hepatic impairment, and support in the diagnosis and management
of adverse drug reactions. Toxicology and poisoning consultation. Therapeutic
drug monitoring service. Participate in the undergraduate and postgraduate
teaching program. Participate in pharmacy and therapeutics committees at
institutional/regional/provincial/national level. Contribute to evidence reviews in
support of applications for additions/deletions/change in indication of
medicines to the formulary. Participate in both institutional and national
pharmacovigilance processes Participate in pharmacy and therapeutics
committees at institutional/regional/provincial/national level.
ENQUIRIES : Prof P Sinxadi, Tel No: (021) 406-4096 or email: phumla.sinxadi@uct.ac.za or
Prof M Blockman, email: marc.blockman@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Please ensure
that you attach an updated CV. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
130
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital, and George Provincial
Hospital. Candidates who are not in possession of the stipulated registration
requirements, may also apply. Such candidates will only be considered for
appointment on condition that proof of application for registration to register
with the relevant council and proof of payment of the prescribed registration
fees to the relevant council are submitted on or before the day of the interview.
This concession is only applicable on health professionals who apply for the
first time for registration in a specific category with the relevant council
(including individuals who must apply for change in registration status).
Consideration will be given to existing employees who are already on higher
salary packages to retain their existing salary position, as personal. As such
they are entitled to receive pay progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be
for a maximum contract period of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to
continue with their pension benefits as Registrar, will be required to resign after
completion of their registrarship should they not be successful for advertised
Specialist positions. Should registration with the HEI as a student be
discontinued for any reason the appointment of Registrar also discontinues.
Applicants must indicate whether they have bursary obligations. The
Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment Equity.
Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in this
regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department will
be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of the
Western Cape according to the yearbook and guidelines.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/161 : REGISTRAR (MEDICAL) (INTERNAL MEDICINE)
(4 Year Contract)
SALARY : R1 001 349 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual’s personal needs). (It will be expected of the successful
candidate to participate in a system of remunerated commuted overtime).
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with
the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Inherent
requirements of the job: Commuted overtime is compulsory. Emergency and
after hour call cover. Each Registrar will be appointed in a specific training
complex but could be required to work across the platform on request.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge, expertise and experience with
regards to providing medical services in assessment, diagnosis and treatment
of inpatients and outpatients. Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience
since obtaining the degree of MBChB and after completion of internal medicine
rotations. Effective leadership & interpersonal skills. FCP (SA) Part 1. Post
community service experience in Internal Medicine on an equivalent clinical
platform. Previous research experience and publication.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Clinical Service Provision. Participate in the Teaching
Programme. Research and Professional Development (incl. completion of
MMED). Effective Clinical Administration in patient records and patient reports.
ENQUIRIES : Dr D Maughan, Tel No: (021) 406 6422 or email: deborah.maughan@uct.ac.za
PPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status). Consideration will be given to existing
employees who are already on higher salary packages to retain their existing
salary position, as personal. As such they are entitled to receive pay
131
progression. Appointment as a Registrar will be for a maximum contract period
of 4 years. Employees in service who opt to continue with their pension benefits
as Registrar, will be required to resign after completion of their registrarship
should they not be successful for advertised Specialist positions. Should
registration with the HEI as a student be discontinued for any reason the
appointment of Registrar also discontinues. Applicants must indicate whether
they have bursary obligations. Groote Schuur Hospital has adopted the
department’s ecosystem framing of its training platform. Accordingly, all
registrar appointments may be called upon to work across this platform and
may include rotations at Metro West and Rural East hospitals. This includes
Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, New Somerset Hospital,
Mitchells Plein District Hospital, Victoria Hospital and George Provincial
Hospital. The Department of Health is guided by the principles of Employment
Equity. Candidates with disability are encouraged to apply and an indication in
this regard will be appreciated. Specific Registrar posts within the Department
will be identified as part of the Affirmative Action programme to create a
representative Specialist cadre in line with applicable procedures. Preference
will be given to SA citizens/permanent residents with a valid identity document.
Registrars will be required to register as post-graduates with University of the
Western Cape according to the yearbook and guidelines.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/162 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OBSTETRICS AND GYNAECOLOGY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 001 349 per annum
Grade 2: R1 142 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 322 352 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchells Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration as Medical Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA qualified
employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as Medical
Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 6
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate
experience as a Medical Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner in respect of SA qualified employees. A minimum of 11
years’ relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service as
required in South Africa. Inherent requirement of the job: A valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s licence. Commuted overtime contract is compulsory, as well as the
ability to work after -hours. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Appropriate
experience and skills in obstetrics and gynaecology care. Ability to work in a
team and with all levels of staff. Must be able to do a Caesarean section safely
and without supervision. Must be able to perform assisted deliveries (vacuums)
safely and without supervision Computer literacy inMS Office mandatory.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Clinical management of all non-acute and emergency
O&G presentation to the emergency centres (labor ward and gynae EC).
Operating independently (theatre cases include complicated caesarean
sections, laparotomies for ectopic pregnancies, evacuation of uterus,
postpartum sterilizations). Managing critically ill patients including
resuscitation. Management of early pregnancy complications which needs a
basic O&G ultrasound competency. Supervision and teaching of students,
interns and midwives. Provide an efficient administration service regarding all
clinical and non-clinical matters and medico-legal work. Provide guidance and
leadership towards the realization of strategic goals and objectives of the
department.
132
ENQUIRIES : Dr T Hinkel, Tel No: (021) 377-4757
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/163 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE
(INFRASTRUCTURE)
Directorate: Supply Chain Infrastructure Governance
SALARY : R896 436 per annum (A portion of the package can be structured according to
the individual's personal needs)
CENTRE : Head Office, located in Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Procurement and or Built Environment (or equivalent) at NQF 7 level.
Experience: Appropriate experience working in an infrastructure-related
environment in a supervisory capacity. Inherent Requirements of the job:
Sound management and communication skills. Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s
license and willingness to travel long distances for extended periods.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of and practical
experience within a SCM Infrastructure environment Extensive Knowledge and
experience of Infrastructure procurement legislation and procurement
processes. Extensive experience in dealing with complex infrastructure related
matters and the ability to analyse and formulate strategic responses to deal
with issues. Computer literacy in MS Word, MS Excel, Outlook. Good
organisational skills. Excellent managerial and leadership skills. Extensive
knowledge and experience of working with infrastructure related legislation.
Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions, Provincial and Treasury
regulations, cidb legislation, Infrastructure delegations and AOS and all
applicable infrastructure procurement legislation. Knowledge of the
Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act 5 of 2000 (PPPFA).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure the annual revision of Infrastructure
Procurement legislation. Ensure any changes in National or Provincial
legislation is adopted within the Departmental legislation for Infrastructure
procurement. Ensure Infrastructure Procurement processes is adequate to
enable procuring entities to conclude infrastructure related contracts timeously
whilst maintaining compliance. Assist Procuring Entities with the interpretation
of Delegations and Policies to ensure that it is applied correctly throughout the
Infrastructure Procurement Process. Write SOP’s, Guidelines, Circulars, SCM
Instructions to assist Procuring Entities with Infrastructure procurement and
compliance management. Assist with handling complex infrastructure related
queries, complaints, disputes and terminations and interact with legal for risk
management. Ensure contract cancellations and terminations are addressed
and reported timeously. Assist with contract related queries, dispute resolution
and supplier relations. Assist with compilation of training material for
infrastructure procurement and Supply Chain related processes. Ensure that
training needs are identified and addressed timeously. Ensure a central
database for training material and guidelines are maintained and accessible to
all procuring entities within the Department. Ensure training statistics are
accurate and reported to Management. Identify any form of SCM abuse or
compliance issues throughout the procurement processes of the Department
and ensure that it is addressed and reported accordingly. Ensure training,
supervision, leadership and capacitation of the SCM Infrastructure
Governance Unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Gouws, email: Patience.Gouws@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
133
POST 12/164 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 3 (OPTHALMOLOGY) (6/8th POST)
Overberg District
SALARY : Grade 1: R751 011 (6/8th) per annum
Grade 2: R856 914 (6/8th) per annum
Grade 3: R991 764 (6/8th) per annum (A portion of the package can be
structured according to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Overberg District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Practitioner. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical
Practitioner. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Medical
Practitioner with the HPCSA in respect of SA-qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified employees,
of whom it is not required to perform community service as required in South
Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Practitioner after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in
respect of SA-qualified employees. A minimum of 6 years’ relevant experience
after registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform community service as required in South Africa. Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as a Medical Practitioner
after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner in respect of SA-
qualified employees. A minimum of 11 years’ relevant experience after
registration as Medical Practitioner with a recognised foreign Health
Professional Council in respect of foreign-qualified employees, of whom it is
not required to perform community service as required in South Africa. Inherent
requirement of the job: A valid driver’s (Code B/EB) license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in Excel and Word. Ability to work as part
of a multidisciplinary team Appropriate and sufficient clinical experience
treating patients with ophthalmology problems. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Additional courses in ophthalmology.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): District ophthalmology, including Worcester Hospital
outreach service, and support to ecosystem. Referral to Specialists and other
healthcare professionals to ensure continuation of care of patients. Facilitate
and teach the informal programme to build the capacity of staff. Data and
administrative duties to ensure the monitoring of progress and implementation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Bezuidenhout or Ms P Robertson, Tel No: (028) 212-5800
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/165 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY UNIT: PSYCHIATRY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212) OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
134
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
after obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric
Nursing Science OR a post-graduate Diploma (R635) accredited with the
SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job: Work shifts
on day duty when required to satisfy operational needs. Work night duty on a
planned schedule to relief the night manager. A Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s
licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of legal framework and
regulations regarding nursing practice. Good leadership and people
management skills, maintain constructive relationships with members of the
multi-disciplinary team. Computer literacy. Basic financial management skills.
The ability to communicate (verbal and written).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure adherence to MHCA prescripts and other
legislation. Effective management of the ward, hospital after hours, over
weekends and public holidays on a planned basis and maintain good working
relationship amongst all members of staff Manage and monitor the effective
utilisation of human, financial and physical resources as per departmental
policies. Co-ordinate and actively participate in focused training and
development of permanent staff and nursing students according to
development plan. Participate in analysis, formulation and implementation of
nursing guidelines, practices, standards and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Nel Tel No: (021) 826-5801
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/166 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (SPECIALTY: SURGICAL ICU)
SALARY : R693 096 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science:
Critical Care Nursing: General or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174)
or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Critical Care Nursing
(Adult). Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/
recognisable experience in Nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period above must
be appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific speciality after
obtaining the 1 year post-basic qualification or a post graduate diploma in the
relevant speciality. Inherent requirement of the job: Ability and willingness to
assist with shifts and after-hours hospital cover including weekends, public
holidays, night duty relief and overtime as the need arises. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Basic computer literacy. Ability to function independently as
well as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Effective communication,
interpersonal, leadership, decision-making and conflict resolution skills. Good
organisational skills and the ability to function under pressure. Knowledge and
insight of relevant legislation and policy related to this nursing speciality within
the public sector. Ability to promote quality patient care through the setting,
implementation and monitoring of standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): The candidate will be responsible for planning,
managing, co-ordinating and maintaining an optimal, specialized Nursing
service as an Operational Manager. Effective management and utilization of
Human and Financial Resources to ensure optimal operational function in the
area. Initiate and participate in training, development and research within the
nursing department. Deliver a support service to the nursing service and the
135
institution. To maintain ethical standards and promote professional growth and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase, Tel. No. (021) 938-4000
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/ competency assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/167 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (MEDICINE: NEUROLOGY) (2
POSTS) (20 HOURS SESSIONS)
(Contract Until 31 March 2027)
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Neurology. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in Neurology. Experience:
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist in
Neurology. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical
Specialist in Neurology after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognised
foreign Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee)
as a Medical Specialist in Neurology. Grade 3: A minimum of 10 years’
appropriate experience as Medical Specialist in Neurology after registration
with the HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect
of foreign qualified employees) as Medical Specialist in Neurology.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge and skills in clinical
neurology. Excellent knowledge and skills in clinical neurophysiology (NCS,
EMG, EEG). Excellent interpersonal, communication, teaching and mentoring
skills. Practice of clinical neurology. Practice of clinical neurophysiology (i.e.,
nerve conduction studies (NCS), electromyography (EMG)
electroencephalography (EEG).
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Assess and manage neurology patients, and
supervise registrars, in general- and various sub-specialisty neurology
outpatient clinics. Assist in the management and smooth running of these
clinics. Assess, appropriately investigate and manage inpatients (e.g.
supervise registrars, lead neurology ward rounds and manage in-hospital
neurology referrals. Clinically assess, investigate and manage patients
attending neurophysiology clinics. Provide supervision and training to
neurology registrars at these clinics. Read and report EEGs, and teach
neurology registrars these skills. Manage neurology referrals from secondary
referral hospitals during office hours. Teach career neurology registrars and
medical students the principles and practice of clinical neurology, and
participate in student examinations.
ENQUIRIES : Dr K Bateman, Tel No: (021) 404-3268 or email: kathleen.bateman@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including) individuals who must apply for
change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/168 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST: GRADE 1 TO 3 (INTERNAL MEDICINE) (20
SESSIONS)
(12-Month Contract)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R646 per hour
136
Grade 2: R737 per hour
Grade 3: R853 per hour
CENTRE : Karl Bremer Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Medical
Specialist in Internal Medicine. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine. Experience: Grade 1: None after
registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Internal Medicine.
Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist
in Internal Medicine, after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee). Grade
3: A minimum of 10 years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist in
Internal Medicine, after registration with the HPCSA (or a recognized foreign
Health Professional Council in respect of a foreign qualified employee).
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver's license and willingness to travel.
Computer literacy. Strong administrative, managerial, communication and
conflict resolution skills. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Clinical experience
in Internal Medicine at a specialist level, with competence in echocardiography.
Ability to render high quality clinical care in the in- and out-patient setting,
including excellent medical record keeping. Ability to balance the outputs of a
large clinical workload with the teaching and supervisory requirements of the
position.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Clinical service delivery at specialist level across the
full spectrum of Internal Medicine services, including wards, outpatients,
emergency centre and specialised clinics. Administrative & clinical governance
including OPD management, medical record keeping, data analysis, quality
improvement and equipment management. Teaching, training and supervision
of junior medical staff and students with participation in the hospital academic
program. Domain specific ouputs and participation within the Metro East
ecosystem, including alignment with all aspects of district-hospital-level
Internal / General Medicine – both within the hospital and the Metro East
ecosystem.
ENQUIRIES : Dr S le Roux, Tel No: (021) 918-1990
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with their levant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/169 : EMS STATION MANAGER GRADE 5 AND 6: DISASTER MEDICINE AND
SPECIAL EVENTS
Chief Directorate: Emergency And Clinical Support Service
SALARY : Grade 5: R562 119 per annum
Grade 6: R624 288 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 5: Successful completion of the
Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that allows
registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Successful completion
of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as an Emergency
Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with a professional council: Grade 5:
Registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a
Paramedic. Grade 6: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 5: Minimum of 3 years’ experience after
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as a Paramedic
(CCA or N.DIP). Grade 6: Minimum of 3 years’ experience after registration
with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency Care
Practitioner (ECP). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid code C1 driver’s
license. Valid Code 10 Professional driver’s permit. Physical and mental fitness
137
as an Emergency Services practitioner. Registration as a Paramedic or ECP.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Comprehensive knowledge of SANS 10366,
Health Act regulations, Disaster Management Act, PFMA, SCM procedures,
MIMMS, incident command systems, and risk assessment methodologies.
Strong skills in event planning and coordination, risk assessment, operational
deployment, incident command, stakeholder engagement, negotiation and
conflict. Proven ability in financial management, including budgeting, cost
recovery, quotations, invoicing and procurement compliance. Excellent report
writing, data analysis, quality assurance, inspection and audit capabilities.
High-level clinical competence within HPCSA Paramedic scope of practice,
with CPD compliance. Computer literacy: MS Word, Excel, Outlook
(intermediate or higher). Behavioural attributes: leadership under pressure,
integrity, professionalism, diplomacy, problem solving, attention to detail,
adaptability and commitment to continuous improvement.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Plan, coordinate and execute special event medical
operations, including developing event medical plans, conducting risk
assessments, preparing costings. Oversee operational deployment of EMS
personnel, vehicles and equipment at events, ensuring effective command,
resource allocation and onsite incident management. Facilitate multi-agency
stakeholder engagement, representing EMS at NATJOINTS/PROVJOINTS
and coordinating with SAPS, Disaster Management, municipalities and event
organisers. Manage financial processes including budget submissions, cost
recovery, quotations, invoices, monitoring expenditure. Evaluate external event
medical plans and monitor compliance, perform inspections, maintain provider
registers and issue compliance/non-compliance notices. Ensure clinical
governance and maintain professional registration, including CPD compliance,
clinical reviews, incident reporting and providing clinical care when required.
Support disaster preparedness and special health operations, including
participation in disaster exercises, EOC activations, audits and contributing to
disaster medicine planning.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Wylie, Tel. No. (021) 508 4517 / Dr Wayne Smith, Tel. No. (021) 815-8822
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/170 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 TO 2 (PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE) (4 POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum (Plus a 8% rural allowance of your annual basic
salary)
CENTRE : Equity Ceres (1 Post)
Bella Vista CC (1 Post)
Nduli CC (1 Post)
Tulbagh Clinic (1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year diploma in Clinical Nursing Science: Health Assessment, Treatment and
Care, accredited with the SANC (R48) or a 4 Year bachelor’s degree in nursing
(R174) or equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South African
Nursing Council as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4
years of appropriate/recognizable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14
years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in Clinical Nursing Science, Health
Assessment, Treatment Care or a post graduate diploma (R635) accredited
with the SANC in Primary Care Nursing. Inherent requirements of the job:
Assist at other clinics (mobiles, satelites, etc) and community (COPC concept)
138
within the SD, when there is a need. A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): NIMART training or experience.
Demonstrate in-depth knowledge of Nursing and public service legislation.
Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Ability to promote quality patient care
through the implementation of protocols, guidelines and standards.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Assist with the management of the burden of
disease in accordance with the guidelines and protocols of the western cape.
Provide and maintain quality of care to all patients and health services.
Maintain accurate clinical records, statistics registers, and referral records.
Effective utilization of Resources/Stock within the limited budget constraints.
Participation in Community events and initiating awareness with regards to
health-related issues. Maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-
disciplinary teamwork but able to work independently. Supervise and mentor
lower categories of staff. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and
self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Wawini, Tel. No. (023) 316-9600
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
basic qualification: Diploma in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment Care or a post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Primary Care Nursing.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/171 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
(OPD)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least
1 year accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science
(R212). OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent
qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate diploma
(R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing. Registration with
a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Specialist Nurse
(Mental Health). Experience: Grade1: A Minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/ recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining
the one-year post-basic qualification year in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing
Science (R212) or a post graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC
in Mental Health Nursing. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts, day and night duty, weekends and public holidays to meet operational
requirements. It will be required of the incumbent to rotate within the hospital.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, leadership,
communication skills, strong sense of responsibility. The ability to function
independently in a multidisciplinary team and the ability to direct the team to
ensure good nursing care. Demonstrate an in-depth knowledge of nursing and
public service legislation and knowledge of Human Resource and financial
policies. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook).
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Provide optimal, holistic specialized psychiatric
nursing care within set standards and professional/legal framework. Effective
utilization of human, financial and physical resources (equipment and
139
consumables). Participation in appropriate personal /professional development
activities: Self, students, other categories of staff. Maintain accurate completed
patient, staff and other appropriate documentation, Management of donations,
assets, consumables and non-consumables as delegated. Assist with the
development and the implementation of nursing quality improvement plans,
policies and standard operating procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Njongonkulu, Tel. No. (021) 503-5077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science or a post graduate
diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/172 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: THEATRE AND DAY
WARD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R476 367 per annum
Grade 2: R583 989 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating
theatre technique (R212). or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post
graduate diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Peri-operative Nursing.
Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
14 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the 1-year post-basic qualification or post graduate diploma in the
relevant specialty. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good verbal and written
communication skills. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the
Department of Health Western Cape. Leadership towards the realisation of
strategic goals and objectives of the Operating Theatre.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure quality patient care regarding the
identification of nursing care needs, the planning and implementation of
nursing care plans and the education of nursing personnel as a Professional
Nurse in the Operating Theatre. Render and supervise specialized clinical
nursing care and support clinical staff with surgical and medical procedures.
Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Maintain and promote professional growth/ethical standards and development
of self and others. Display of core values of the Department of Health WCG in
the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede, Tel. No. (044) 802-4352
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post
140
basic qualification in Medical and Surgical Nursing Science: Operating theatre
technique (R212) or post graduate diploma accredited with the SANC in Peri-
operative Nursing (R635).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/173 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CHANGE MANAGEMENT (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: People Strategy
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-
Degree (NQF 6 or higher) in Human Resource Management, Organisational
Development, Industrial Psychology or a related field. A recognised Change
Management accreditation or certification (e.g. Prosci or similar) will be
advantageous. Experience: Appropriate experience in change management,
organisational development or a related environment. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid Code 8 (B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of change management principles, models and methodologies.
Knowledge of organisational culture and leadership theory and models. Good
verbal and written communication skills, including facilitation and report writing.
Diagnostic and analytical skills, including the ability to interpret organisational
data and identify emerging themes. Good interpersonal, stakeholder
engagement and influencing skills. Sound practical computer skills in MS Office
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Outlook and Teams. Preparedness to work
overtime, travel and stay overnight when required.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Ensure change management activities align with
departmental strategies, DPSA frameworks and policies through research,
analysis, interpretation and advisory support, and contribute to the translation
of these frameworks into practical implementation approaches. Facilitation and
implementation of Change Interventions and initiatives through stakeholder
engagement, coaching and structured facilitation to drive adoption. Co-
ordinate and execute organisational surveys to track organisational
transformation change and participate in procurement processes. Reporting,
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) on change management activities and
ensure accurate and consolidated information for departmental decision
making. Operational planning, People Management and Financial
Management responsibilities i.e. day-to-day supervision of staff, workflow and
operations management, procurement, contract and asset management,
compliance monitoring with departmental policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Heunis, Tel. No. (021) 483-6531
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/174 : ASSISTANT MANAGER: HRM ADVISORY SERVICES
Directorate: People Strategy, Sub-directorate: People Management
Compliance & Training
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : This post is currently based on the premises of Karl Bremer Hospital, Bellville
Health Park Building
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year Diploma or Degree
in Human Resources/ People Management field. Experience: Appropriate
experience and In-depth knowledge in the field of Human Resource
Management in the Public Service with the emphasis on all aspects of
personnel administration. Appropriate supervisory experience. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code (B/ EB) driver’s license. Willingness to work
away from home on continuous basis. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
verbal as well as written communication skills, analytical and innovative
thinking abilities to interpret and effectively present policies and procedures, as
well as report writing skills. In depth expert knowledge and ability to research
the Public Service Act 1994 as amended, Public Service Regulations, 2016,
2023; collective agreements, People Management (PM) Policies, procedures
and practices and PM Procedural Manuals. Practical computer skills in MS
141
Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), PERSAL, MS Outlook and TEAMS. Ability to
function independently as well as in a team and to deal with conflict.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Co-ordinate, facilitate, guide and perform HRM
compliance investigations, Risk identification i.t.o. HR Practices and Policies at
Health facilities and perform quality control in terms of finalization of complex
HR reports and submissions. Effective management of sub-ordinates, provide
guidance and advice to HR/PM staff, HR/PM Managers, Line Managers as well
as Heads of Institutions pertaining to HRM policies and practices at Health
Institutions, District as well as Regional Offices. Develop, analyze and interpret
complex interpretations of Departmental and Public Service Policies procedure
manuals and compliance investigation tools. Identify training needs, develop
training material, implement programs for training of staff as well as conduct
and facilitate formal functional training. Perform HRM related Ad hoc
investigations, i.e. grievances, complaints via Hotline, response to Public
Service Commission related to Conditions of Service, etc and attend to Internal
Audit and Auditor General reports – ensure that recommendations have been
addressed. Render a client service /help desk to PM Offices at institutions
regarding Conditions of Service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Shade, tel. no. (021) 483-3717
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/175 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R468 459 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha/Eastern Sub-structure
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Degree (NQF L7)
/National Diploma (NQF L6) in SCM. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management and support services. Appropriate supervisory and
management experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB
driver’s license. Willingness to travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Extensive knowledge of relevant SCM prescripts, departmental Instructions,
departmental Accounting Officer Systems policies and procedures.
Departmental SCM procurement delegations. Computer literate in MS Office
(Excel, Word and PowerPoint), ePS, LOGIS, Vulindlela and BAS. Proven ability
to work independently in a high-pressure environment while complying to due
dates. Highly developed problem solving and managerial skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Overall management and monitoring of Supply Chain
Management (SCM) functions and ensure the effective and efficient application
of procurement policies and processes, including Procurement, Demand
Management, Acquisition Management, Contract Management, Logistics
Management, Asset and Disposal Management and the institutionalisation of
proper SCM practice within the Sub-Structure. Ensure compliance to all
relevant acts and prescripts, thereby ensuring audit compliance. Ensure
timeous and accurate reporting on SCM information and performance of the
Sub-structure. Ensure the effective and efficient management of SCM systems
in the Sub-structure. Emotional Intelligence to deal with stressful situations in
an ever-changing environment. Responsible for the overall Human Resource
Management of personnel in SCM, Transport and Support Service
components.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Dzanibe, Tel no: (021)-360 4200 or email:
malusi.dzanibe@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for other vacant Assistant Director: Supply Chain
Management post within the Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a
period of 3 months from date of advert. Candidates may be subjected to a
written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
142
POST 12/176 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITONER: PEOPLE MANAGEMENT (HR
PLANNING AND EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES)
Overberg District
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Overberg District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year Diploma/ Degree or
equivalent. Experience: Appropriate experience in HR Planning, Establishment
Administration, Recruitment & Selection Administration and Performance
Management. Appropriate previous experience in a supervisory or managerial
position. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB/C1) driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel and essential skills to do after hour’s work. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively. Leadership capabilities,
managerial and organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook and Internet). Ability to manage conflict. The ability to
analyse, interpret and apply legislation, policies and prescripts.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Responsible for HR Planning, Establishment Control,
and Compensation management within the district and conduct training in this
regard. Assist with Recruitment and Selection, Advertising of posts, DOTS
Verifications, Pay Progressions, Grade Progressions, Salary Determination in
respect of different OSD and non-OSD categories. Responsible for the Staff
Performance Management System process in the District and Permis training
in Sub Districts and acts as helpdesk for Permis. Assist the Pre-and Formal
Moderating Committees with strategic overview of the performance
management process. Give support and guidance to the institutions in the
District regarding the HR Planning process. Responsible for the administration
of staff establishment within the parameters of the approved post structure, i.e.
the creation/ abolishment of posts, the Approved Post List and the HF2
process. Responsible for the investigation of grievances/disputes linked to
recruitment and selection and performance management. Serve as nodal point
for maintaining and reporting on integrated HR Information and provide input
to the District Health Plan. Effective supervision and development of sub
ordinates and provision of a general support service to supervisor and
colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Sass, Tel no: (028) 214-5805
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/177 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(INFRASTRUCTURE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT) (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Supply Chain Infrastructure Governance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Location Bellville Health Park)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Procurement and or Built Environment or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience working in an infrastructure-related environment.
Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code (B/EB) driver’s license and
willingness to travel long distances for extended periods. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of and practical experience in SCM
systems such as CIDB, ePS, CSD and WCSEB. Knowledge and experience
of Infrastructure procurement legislation and various training materials. Ability
to conduct training on infrastructure procurement and related matters and the
ability to analyse and respond to queries emanating from training sessions.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Computer literacy in MS Word,
MS Excel, Outlook. Good organisational skills. Excellent managerial and
leadership skills. Extensive knowledge and experience of working with
infrastructure related legislation. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions,
Provincial and Treasury regulations, CIDB legislation, Infrastructure
delegations and AOS and all applicable infrastructure procurement legislation.
Knowledge of the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act 5 of 2000
(PPPFA).
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Compile various training material and guides for
Infrastructure procurement processes and other needs related to infrastructure
143
procurement. Compile a training prospectus and ensure distribution thereof to
all Procuring Entities. Draft SCM Circulars and Instructions to ensure that
training guides are circulated to all Procuring Entities that can be used to assist
during the procurement process. Ensure that all training material is in line with
current legislation and industry’s best practices. Update training material
according to changes within the industry and legislation. Identify training needs
related to infrastructure procurement and facilitate training sessions to address
the needs accordingly. Assist infrastructure Procuring Entities by analysing the
current procurement processes and identifying gaps that must be addressed
through training interventions, to ensure compliance throughout the
procurement process. Provide training and support on various systems such
as Eps, CIDB, CSD, WCSEB. Maintain a central database of all training
material and guides that are accessible by all Procuring Entities within the
Department. Compile a debrief document after each training session, indicating
questions and answers that can be used to further develop training material
and list the action items that were identified during the training session. Ensure
action items are addressed timeously and provide feedback to the relevant
Entity. Compile and distribute questionnaires to determine the effectiveness of
the training material and identify possible areas for improvement. Maintain a
database with details of all training sessions conducted. Ensure that training
statistics are accurate and reported to Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Olivier, email: francois.olivier@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the interview process.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/178 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
(INFRASTRUCTURE POLICY DEVELOPMENT (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Supply Chain Infrastructure Governance
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town (Location Bellville Health Park
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualifications: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree in Procurement and or Built Environment or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate experience working in an infrastructure-related environment.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Extensive knowledge of and practical
experience in SCM systems such as CIDB, ePS, CSD and WCSEB. Good
verbal and written communication skills. Computer literacy in MS Word, MS
Excel, Outlook. Good organisational skills. Excellent managerial and
leadership skills. Extensive knowledge and experience of working with
infrastructure related legislation. Knowledge of PFMA, Finance instructions,
Provincial and Treasury regulations, CIDB legislation, Infrastructure
delegations and AOS and all applicable infrastructure procurement legislation.
Knowledge of the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act 5 of 2000
(PPPFA).
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Formulation and implementation of various forms of
legislation relating to infrastructure procurement and ensure compliance in the
application thereof. Communicate with all stakeholders about proposed
changes in legislation. Facilitate meetings with relevant role players to analyse
and discuss proposed changes in legislation. Draft changes into policy
documents and communicate updated policy documents to all stakeholders
after approval. Assist Procuring Entities with the interpretation of Policies,
Delegations and other forms of legislation applicable to infrastructure
procurement to ensure compliance. Assist Procuring Entities with various
procurement methods based on their current SCM capacity. Assist end-users
with dispute resolution and ensure the correct procedures are followed in terms
of the contract and delegations. Identify potential infrastructure legislation that
is causing challenges in the execution of the procurement process and arrange
stakeholder engagements to propose possible changes. Draft SCM Circulars
and SCM instructions relating to infrastructure procurement. Provide training
and support on various forms of legislation relating to infrastructure
procurement. Assist end-users with queries related to infrastructure
procurement throughout all phases of the infrastructure procurement process.
Identify and report any form of SCM abuse or compliance related issues
throughout the infrastructure procurement cycle. Provide support to end-users
144
on various systems related to infrastructure procurement such as Eps, CSD,
WCSEB and CIDB. Provide support to end-users on operational challenges
related to infrastructure procurement and ensure timeous response to queries.
Assist with Management of Non-Supplier performance and the reporting
thereof.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Olivier, email: francois.olivier@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. A practical test
may form part of the interview process.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/179 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCES (PAYROLL
AND SERVICE BENEFITS) (2 POSTS)
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate 3-year National Diploma or
Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in the PERSAL system.
Appropriate Human Resource Administration, in all aspects of personnel and
salary administration. Appropriate supervisory experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to function independently and within a team context.
Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and PERSAL). Good
interpersonal and conflict resolution skills. Knowledge of relevant Legislation.
Leadership, organization, creative problem-solving and decision-making skills.
Working knowledge of all aspects regarding Human Resources.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Provide support in the administration processes of E-
Disclosure and Declarations. Application of the OSD regulations and
prescripts. Coordinate, implement and monitor the relevant policies,
procedures, prescripts regarding personnel, salary, commuted overtime, leave
and administration in general as applicable in a staff office. Ensure efficient and
effective quality and risk management in HR, including audit compliance,
databases and reports. Interpret and implement policies, regulations and
procedures and provide an effective and efficient assistance and support to
clients, personnel, management and supervisors. Provide in-service training of
personnel within the relevant section. Management of PERSAL functions.
Manage and supervise the general staff office with a very high workload, which
are responsible for all personnel and related matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CD Wehr, Tel no: (021) 404-2306
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a competency test.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/180 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: EXPENDITURE ANALYSIS AND
MANAGEMENT REPORTING (2 POSTS)
(12 Month Contract)
Directorate Management Accounting: Sub-Directorate: Strategic Budget
Analysis
SALARY : R397 116 per annum plus 37% in lieu of service benefits
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, stationed at Bellville Health Park
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate three-year National Diploma or
Degree in a financial field or data analytics. Experience: Appropriate
experience in data analysis, financial administration and/or costing.
Appropriate experience in using database management tools like Azure, SQL
Server and Power Query will be advantageous. Appropriate experience in
utilizing Microsoft Excel. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB
driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Demonstrated ability to
analyse large, complex datasets, perform data cleaning and transformation,
and generate actionable insights to support decision-making. Computer
literacy with proficiency in MS Excel, Word, PowerPoint and other data
management tools. Strong analytical mindset with the ability to translate raw
data into meaningful insights, trends and visualisations for non-technical
stakeholders. Basic understanding of cost management principles, budgeting
and management accounting practices. Ability to work with and generate
145
reports from large datasets to support planning and decision-making. Good
report writing and communication skills. Ability to work independently as well
as collaboratively with stakeholders. Intermediate to advanced Excel skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Perform data exploration, cleaning and
transformation to ensure high-quality datasets for financial and operational
analysis. Identify and analyze financial and budgetary risks through the review
of expenditure and operational data. Prepare cost estimates, financial
assessments and supporting documentation to inform planning and budgeting
processes. Develop and monitor service volume and expenditure indicators to
assess their impact on resource utilisation and expenditure efficiency. Develop
and maintain financial reporting models and tools to support routine financial
monitoring and forecasting. Extract, validate and consolidate data from multiple
financial and operational systems for reporting purposes. Maintain and update
large financial datasets and databases to ensure data accuracy and integrity.
Monitor and support cash flow management and expenditure control for
specific programmes or business units. Provide technical support and
guidance to sectors/institutions on projection techniques and the interpretation
of financial reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J De Beer, Tel no: (021) 815-8610
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/181 : PRIMARY HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R397 116 per annum
CENTRE : Du Noon CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 12 (or equivalent). Experience:
Extensive experience in administration and support services within a
health/public sector environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Standby
duties as required. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of public
sector legislation, including PFMA, Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act,
POPIA, OHS Act and SCM prescripts. Computer literacy (MS Office and
applicable systems such as PERMIS, LOGIS, BAS, etc.). Sound knowledge of
administrative processes, people management practices, financial and supply
chain processes, information management, facility infrastructure maintenance,
and applicable public service prescripts. Strong organisational, planning,
communication and interpersonal skills are essential, along with proven
contract management experience. Ability to draft and implement standard
operating procedures. Good verbal and written communication skills. Ability to
work under pressure and meet strict deadlines. Strong leadership and people
management capability. Ability to analyse data and compile management
reports.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Ensure effective and compliant patient administration
and support services, including reception, cleaning services, information
management, healthcare waste management and transport. Manage people,
performance, leave administration and staff development in line with public
service prescripts. Oversee supply chain, inventory and asset management to
ensure audit readiness and uninterrupted service delivery. Coordinate
infrastructure maintenance and provide utilities oversight to maintain a safe
and functional facility environment. Lead quality assurance and continuous
improvement initiatives to ensure regulatory compliance across support
services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Hall, Tel no: (021) 200-4501
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/182 : EMS SHIFT LEADER GRADE 3 TO 6 (3 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Services
SALARY : Grade 3: R335 226 per annum
Grade 4: R397 308 per annum
Grade 5: R480 108 per annum
146
Grade 6: R589 443 per annum
CENTRE : Emergency Medical Services, Metropole and Rural Districts
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Intermediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 4: Successful completion of
the Emergency Care Technician Course (ECT) that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Emergency Care Technician (ECT). Grade 5: Successful
completion of the Critical Care Assistant course (CCA) or National Diploma that
allows registration with the HPCSA as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Successful
completion of the B-Tech Degree that allows registration with the HPCSA as
an Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Registration with a professional
council: Grade 3: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an AEA. Grade 4: Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa as an ECT. Grade 5: Registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa as a Paramedic. Grade 6: Registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as an ECP. Experience: Grade 4: Minimum
of 3 years’ experience within your current registration category with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa as Emergency Care Technician (ECT).
Grade 3: Minimum of 3 years’ experience within your current registration
category with the Health Professions Council of South Africa as Ambulance
Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 5: Minimum of 3 years’ experience within
your current registration category with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as Paramedic (CCA or N.DIP). Grade 6: Minimum of 3 years’ experience
within your current registration category with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as Emergency Care Practitioner (ECP). Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid code C1 driver’s license. Current registration with HPCSA as an
AEA, ECT, Paramedic or ECP. Current Professional driver’s permit.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all levels of
emergency care protocols. Good communication and interpersonal skills.
Computer literacy in the MS Office package. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Effective pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care and
response to incidences when required. Ensure effective supervision and
maintenance of Emergency Vehicles and equipment in line with the Financial
and Fleet directives. Ensure effective report writing with regards to accident
and incident reports, loss and theft control incidents and safety incidents.
Ensure effective communication with regards to patients, colleagues, other
services, and members of the Public. Supervise and manage rostered shifts
and personnel in line with People Management policies and practices. Provide
effective administrative support to the Supervisor when required.
ENQUIRIES : EMS Eastern District Office – Mr M Petersen, tel. no. (021) 361-6568 / Ms N
Mlatsha, tel. no. (021) 816-8807
EMS Garden Route District Office - Mr J Jansen, tel. no. (044) 802-2517/ Ms L
Jacobs, Tel no: (044) 802-252
EMS West Coast District Office – Mr E Pedro, tel. no. (022) 433-8853 / Ms S
Andrew, Tel no: (022) 433-8853.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/183 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ADMISSIONS
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in a
Hospital Fees environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Sound
knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum Chapter 18, HIS
CLINICOM/AR/Cognos) and BAS, UPFS, PMFA and Treasury Instructions.
Knowledge of reconciliation between BAS and Billing system. Computer
literacy (MS Word, Excel). Good interpersonal and labour relations abilities.
Knowledge of Budgeting. Good Management Skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Manage and control of the fees Follow-up
department, staffing and reporting to line managers. Manage the debiting and
crediting of all patient fees received from debtors, funders and other third
147
parties, ensuring staff under the manager is allocated correct workloads.
Manage the outstanding Private funded accounts/ high-cost accounts
outstanding including engaging with relevant stakeholders (i.e. Medical
Schemes, State Accounts, Case Managers and Patients). Ensure all follow-up
procedures as per Hospital Fees Manual and Financial Instructions is
maintained. Control and manage document batching.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MA Khan, tel. no. (021) 404-3248
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17: 00PM
POST 12/184 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
(PAYROLL AND SERVICE BENEFITS)
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate Human Resource Administration. Appropriate
experience in the PERSAL system. Experience in all aspects of personnel and
salary administration. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of relevant
Legislation. Working knowledge of all aspects regarding Human Resources.
Good interpersonal and conflict resolution skills. Ability to function
independently and within a team context. Leadership, organization, creative
problem-solving and decision-making skills. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook and PERSAL).
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Provide assistance and support to clients, personnel,
management and supervisors. Render effective support to supervisor.
Application of the OSD. Ensure efficient and effective quality and risk
management in PM department, including audit compliance. Train and develop
sub-ordinates. Approve PERSAL transactions. Act as revisor of Persal work.
Administer and ensure effective and efficient implementation of Human
Resource Management policies and prescripts. Responsible for the monitoring
and evaluation of staff in terms of the Staff Performance Management Systems
(SPMS). Supervise, plan and co-ordinate the section with regards to the
relevant policies, procedures, prescripts with regards to personnel, salary
administration, PILIR, leave, termination WCA, acting allowance, debt
management, commuted overtime paysheet management, and administration
of general service conditions in a staff office.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CD Wehr, Tel no: (021) 404-2306
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17: 00PM
POST 12/185 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER: (EMPLOYEE SOURCING)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R325 101 per annum
CENTRE : Southern/Western Sub-structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in Recruitment and Selection. Supervisory
experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Driver’s License (Code B/EB).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (PERSAL, MS Word,
Excel, Outlook, e-Recruitment system) Ability to execute duties accurately and
thoroughly. Knowledge of Departmental Recruitment and Selection policy.
Good interpersonal and problem-solving skills. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Supervise the advertisement of posts, recruitment
and selection process, verification and criminal record checks. Administer an
establishment control function and confirm post details. Perform secretarial
duties before, during and after interviewing processes. Administer the drafting
of motivations and contracts. Apply knowledge of people management policies,
procedures and directives with regard to the recruitment and selection process.
Maintain and update databases. Capturing of adverts on SCUBED. Handle
correspondence and enquiries (written and verbal). Effective support to
148
supervisor, Community Health Centre’s and Hospitals and training of staff. Staff
Performance Management and training and development of Sub-ordinates.
Supervision of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Jacobs, Tel no: (021) 202-0957
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/186 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL INPATIENT)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum (Plus non-pensionable rural allowance of 8% of
your annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse or A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of
10 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and
weekends. Willingness to rotate to other wards in the hospital and to work at
the clinics in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function independantly , as well
as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Excellent
communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Provide direction and supervision for the
implementation of the nursing plan (clinical practice or patient care). Implement
standards, practices, criteria, and indicators for quality nursing (quality of
practice). Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the laws and
regulations relevant to nursing and health care.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mphato, Tel no: (028) 713 -8643
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/187 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: NURSE TRAINING
RELIEF)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R324 384 per annum
Grade 2: R396 132 per annum
Grade 3: R476 367 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
149
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Ability to work shifts during the day and night,
weekends and public holidays and overtime when required by supervisor.
Willingness to rotate within different Functional Business Units. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): The ability to function independently in a multi-disciplinary
team and the ability to direct the team to ensure quality nursing care. Good
problem solving, motivational and leadership skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Provide direction and supervision for the
implementation of the nursing plan (clinical practice/quality patient care).
Implement standards, practices, criteria and indicators for quality nursing
(quality of practice). Practice nursing and health care in accordance with the
laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Maintain a
constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Utilize
human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Ensure
accurate collection and recording of data. Render support to the supervisor and
colleagues.
ENQUIRIES : Mr S Bruiners, Tel no: (023) 348-1104
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/188 : PHARMACIST’S ASSISTANT: GRADE 1 TO 3 (POST BASIC)
(INSTITUTIONAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Worcester CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus a Post-Basic Pharmacist
Assistant qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) or
Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC Grade 3: A
minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness to travel between PHC facilities
in the BVSD and provide relief as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post Basic).
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work accurately under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies, Medicines
Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public Finance Management
150
Act. Appropriate clinical and pharmaceutical knowledge. Innovative analytical
thinking and the ability to initiate, co-ordinate, manage and sustain programs.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Pharmaceutical service delivery according to
legislation and scope of practice. Effective medicine supply management
(Receiving, storage, control and distribution of pharmaceuticals) including cold
chain management in all areas where medications are kept. Provision of health
information, adherence counselling and advice on correct usage and storage
of medication. Assistance with waste management and rational usage of
resources. Compliance with policy and legislative requirements and Good
Pharmacy Practice Guidelines. Assistance with the Chronic Dispensing Unit
(CDU) processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Mbila, Tel no: (023) 814-0290
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/189 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (POST BASIC)
(INSTITUTIONAL)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R264 750 per annum
Grade 2: R306 411 per annum
Grade 3: R330 540 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus a Post-Basic Pharmacist
Assistant qualification that allows registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Registration with a Professional Council:
Registration with the SAPC as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) or
Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post-Basic) (Institutional). Experience: Grade 1: None
after registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post Basic) with the SAPC. Grade
2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC Grade 3: A
minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience as Pharmacist Assistant after
registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
perform regular after-hours duties. Willingness to travel between PHC facilities
in the Stellenbosch subdistrict and provide relief as Pharmacist’s Assistant
(Post Basic) and to work as an Indirectly supervised pharmacist assistant at
PHC facilities. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office:
Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work accurately under
pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work in a
multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies, Medicines
Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public Finance Management
Act. Appropriate clinical- and pharmaceutical- and stock management
knowledge. Innovative analytical thinking and the ability to initiate, co-ordinate,
manage and sustain programs.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Pharmaceutical service delivery according to
legislation and scope of practice. Effective medicine supply management
(Receiving, storage, control and distribution of pharmaceuticals) including cold
chain management in all areas where medications are kept. Provision of health
information, adherence counselling and advice on correct usage and storage
of medication. Assistance with waste management and rational usage of
resources. Compliance with policy and legislative requirements and Good
Pharmacy Practice Guidelines. Assistance with the Chronic Dispensing Unit
(CDU) processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Wessels, Tel no: (021) 815-8307
151
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/190 : PHYSIOTHERAPIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (4 SESSIONS PER WEEK) (2 POSTS)
(3-Year Contract)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R262 per hour
Grade 2: R306 per hour
Grade 3: R358 per hour
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Physiotherapist. Registration with a Professional Council: Registration with the
HPCSA as a Physiotherapist. Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with
the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of RSA-qualified employees. 1-year
relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in
respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years’ relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist
in respect of RSA-qualified employees. A Minimum of 11 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
Service, as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years relevant
experience after registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of
RSA-qualified employees. A minimum of 21 years relevant experience after
registration with the HPCSA as Physiotherapist in respect of foreign qualified
employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community Service, as
required in South Africa. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of
applicable health legislation, relevant Acts and Public Service Policies and
Procedures. Experience with the Infant Neuromotor Assessment (INA) as a
screening tool as well as experience in infant assessment and treatment of
infants. Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary team. Computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Assess and treat patients within a tertiary level
Neonatology Service including High Care units as well as in Neonatal High
Risk follow up outpatient clinic. Be responsible for administration related to
patient care as well as departmental administration. Management of assets in
allocated work area. Assist in the clinical teaching/supervision of
undergraduate students and post graduate paediatricians training in infant
assessment.
ENQUIRIES : Dr AD Daniels, Tel no: (021) 659-5562
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/191 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (CARPENTRY AND WOOD-
MACHINE JOINERY)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade A: R243 597 per annum
Grade B: R285 816 per annum
Grade C: R332 061 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate trade test Certificate
(Carpentry). Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At least
152
18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the
relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in the area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid driver’s license.
Willingness to perform standby duties and overtime should the need arise.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Conversant with
the requirement of the Machinery and Occupational Health and Safety Act.
Ability to supervise workshop staff.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Carry out routine inspections, maintenance and
repairs including alterations and installation of building/carpentry/furniture,
fittings and in the manufacturing of assistive devices. Assist Artisan Foreman
with administration duties, planning and schedules. Complete and return repair
requisitions and assist in ordering and controlling in workshop, materials and
tools. Do quality checks on all maintenance and repair work performed and
keep register of all work done. Liaise with all relevant personnel in ensuring
New Somerset Hospital is within regulations regarding all carpentry and wood
machine joinery. Supervise and training of staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr AA Challis, tel. no. (021) 402-6530
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/192 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Garden Route District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Heidelberg Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration and reception
environment. Appropriate experience in Patient Registration, Records
Management and Archive policies Appropriate experiences in Information
Management Systems (PHCIS, Tier.net, SINJANI, Ideal Clinic). Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence Willingness to rotate
between Reception and Information Management. Willingness to do relieve
duties in other facilities in Hessequa Sub District. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience in departmental systems, i.e
Health Information Systems (PHCIS, SINJANI, Tier.Net, Ideal Clinic).
Knowledge of Registry, Reception Services, Medical Records, Disposal and
Record Management Policies. Microsoft Package (MS Excel, Word, Power
Point) Good communication skills (verbal and written)
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Leadership and governance by ensuring
implementation of DOH policies, guidelines and SOP’s. Effective and efficient
management of Reception Services and Registry functions. Client service and
support. Data management. SCM and Equipment management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms E Braaf, Tel no: (028) 713 -8644
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/193 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Montagu PHC Clinic, Langeberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in PHC Facility. Experience in PHCIS,
NHLS, Sinjani, Ideal Clinic and IPWIS. Experience in filing system. Inherent
requirement of the job: Willingness to work on mobile clinic and overtime when
needed. Valid (Code B / EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). The ability to accept accountability
and responsibility with good interpersonal skills, the ability to maintain
confidentiality and excellent communication skills (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: General administrative support for fixed PHC Clinic
and 3 Mobile clinics. Compile and capture headcounts, HIV and TB data and
153
statistics daily, weekly, and monthly on relevant systems. Appointment folders
drawn and prepared according to appointment lists at least one workday before
the time. All folders drawn checked for complete personal details, completed
or updated if needed and enough stickers in folder. Facility folder is to be
opened for all new clients, correct stationery is placed in the folders, personal
details of client completed and stickers to be printed. Registry maintenance –
correct refiling of active folders as received back in registry within two days and
removal, archiving and disposal of inactive files according to policy. Answering
the phone and dealing with enquiries, making appointments for the services in
the facility and for the mobiles.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MP Williams, Tel no: (023) 626-8548
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisting
candidates may be subjected to a practical and competency test as part of the
interview process.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/194 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Brackengate Transitional Care Facility
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate (or
equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
Supply Chain Management & Finance Administrative processes. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Willingness to travel
and work overtime when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of LOGIS, EPS, CSD, WCSEB, ESL and BAS Systems.
Knowledge of the PFMA, National and Provincial Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of the Accounting Officer’s System of the Department of Health
including delegations. Computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to function independently as
well as in a multi-disciplinary team.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Manage acquisition of goods or services. Assist end-
users with compilation of specifications. Ensure effective and efficient
procurement are done in time, as per approved Budget. Capture requisitions
and other documentation of the Supply Chain (LOGIS) system. Warehouse
management. Monthly SCM reporting. Communicate and take minutes for the
Quotation Committee. Capturing and processing of LOGIS and BAS payments
on receipt and in compliance to the PFMA, NTR’s, PTI’s and Departmental
Finance Instructions and Circulars. Follow up on outstanding commitments.
File all relevant documentation and ensure audit compliance. Handle supplier
queries and regular communication with end-users. Provide support to
colleagues and supervisors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mkweta, Tel no: (021) 370-2328
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/195 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate information management experience in a health
environment. Appropriate CLINICOM experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication skills. Computer skills in MS Office.
Good interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills. Ability to work
independently, and as part of a team. Ability to maintain confidentiality,
problem-solving and conflict management with good organisational skills.
Official must have a good understanding of the daily running of the information
154
management department in a health environment and a good understanding
of the department protocols and policies.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: System administration and control of Health
Information Systems. Do data quality checks, folder audits and provide
information management statistics. Render IT support to the hospital. Give
technical advice in purchasing of IT equipment from Government tenders and
control and administration of DITCOM applications. Give training to hospital
staff relating to IT, Health Information Systems and orientate staff regarding
trouble shooting errors. Communicating and liaising with various stakeholders
regarding information management and IT issues or support. Provide office
administration to supervisor and the information management department.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Baartman, Tel no: (021) 826-5863
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/196 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (OBSTETRICS AND
GYNAECOLOGY)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate effectively (verbal and written).
Ability to manage conflict in calm manner (ability to de-escalate). Ability to work
independently and execute tasks with high efficiency. Good interpersonal skills
and ability to work with multiple stakeholders in hospital environment. Good
secretarial and administrative skills. Good computer literacy in MS Office
(word, excel, PowerPoint, Teams, Outlook).
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Manage the office of the Manager: Medical Services,
Mother Women Child and Adolescent Health Care. Provide administrative
support to the Manager. Provide meeting support to the Manager. Provide
manager with quality assurance support (complaints and audits). Act as
Medical Intern administrator in support of medical intern manager.
ENQUIRIES : Dr A Osman or Dr L Schoeman, Tel no: (021) 404-6020 or email:
ayesha.osman@uct.ac.za/ leanne.schoeman@uct.ac.za or
marilyn.koks@uct.ac.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/197 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Metro TB Hospital Complex (Brooklyn Chest Hospital)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate administrative experience. Inherent requirements of
the job: A valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to travel. Willingness
to assist and perform walk-round duties within the hospital premises.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge and experience in Health
Information Systems and data capturing (Sinjani, CLINICOM and Ideal Health
Facility). Extensive knowledge of computer skills in MS Office. Good
interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to produce accurate and reliable
outputs within a pressured and deadline driven environment. Attention to detail.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Provide administrative support to the information
management, quality assurance and office of CEO. Provide basic IT and
desktop support to end users. Ensure efficient training and meeting
coordination and support. Perform data handling and project support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr CB Plaatjies, Tel no: (021) 508-7400
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subject to a written and oral assessment. The pool of
applicants will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
155
Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of advert, provided that the
job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary level are the same
as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/198 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS FEES DEPARTMENT (PATIENT
ADMINISTRATION)
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and /or Senior
Certificate with experience / competencies that focus on the Key Performance
Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in a Fees-
related environment dealing with CLINICOM Patient Administration. Inherent
requirements of the job: Rotate in fees department as per operational
requirements if required Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy.
(Ms Outlook, Ms Excel). Knowledge of Hospital Fees Memorandum 18, UPFS,
HIS, CLINICOM, Billing and Finance instructions. Good communication skills
(verbal and written). Strong sense of confidentiality.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: CLINICOM patient registration functions
attendances, disposals as per PGWC Hospital Fees policies and procedures
including booking of appointments & patients transport on Healthnet. Attending
to patient queries (both verbal and written). Responsible for handling and
receiving of public money, Cash Collection and Banking of State Money.
Debiting of Charge Entries to invoices as per UPFS and PGWC billing
procedures including ICD10 capturing. Provide administrative and secretarial
support services to the department. Various Reception tasks or duties assigned
to you by immediate supervisor as required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Swail, Tel no: (021) 404-2333
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/199 : PERSONNEL OFFICER (EMPLOYEE BENEFITS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Southern/Western Sub-Structure Office
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate or equivalent.
Experience: Appropriate experience in recruitment and selection.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to work under pressure, meet
deadlines and to maintain confidentiality. Computer literate (i.e MS Word,
Excel, Outlook, E-recruitment system and PERSAL). Good interpersonal,
decision-making, problem-solving skills and the ability to function in team as
well as independently. Ability to execute duties accurately and thoroughly.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the
employee sourcing section e.g. assist with the compilation of advertisements,
capturing of adverts on e-Recruitment system, recruitment and selection
processes, logistical arrangements for all posts, verifications of documents,
transfers and general administrative duties, including handling of
correspondence and enquiries. Perform secretarial duties before, during and
after interviewing processes. Liaise with relevant role players with regards to
recruitment and selection matters. Assist with the drafting of motivations and
submissions. Maintain and update databases. Capture adverts on the
SCUBED system. Provide an effective support service to supervisor, managers
and assist managers with the E-recruitment system.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Jacobs, Tel no: (021) 202-0957
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates will be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
156
POST 12/200 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
West Coast Health District
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Swartland Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as a passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience in
a hospital and patient fees environment. Inherent requirements of the job:
Willingness to work overtime and as reliever for the Admissions section.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal and organisational skills,
and computer literacy (MS Office). Good verbal and written communication
skills. Knowledge of Uniform Patient Fees Schedule (UPFS), Hospital
Memorandum 18 and Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Knowledge of
CLINICOM and AR systems.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Register patients and assess patients according to
Hospital Memorandum 18 and UPFS manual. Render effective cashier
services. Maintain patient appointment system. Render effective medical
records service. Render support function to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr V Ratshana, Tel no: (022) 487-9244
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/201 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPORT (WARDS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R228 321 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in administration in a hospital
environment. Inherent requirements of the job: Ability to work within a team.
Willingness to rotate and assist in other areas as required. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Must be computer literate and skilled in Microsoft Word and
Excel. Good interpersonal /communication skills (read and write). Ability to
work under pressure and to meet deadlines. Ability to do problem solving and
to keep confidentiality. Good planning and organisational skills. Sound
knowledge of clerical and administrative processes.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Assist with patient administration processes,
according to the departmental procedures for information management on
CLINICOM (admissions, discharges, inter hospital transfers, appointments,
abscondment and deaths. Record and report daily patient head count on
manual registers. Ensure discharge forms and UPF charge sheets are
completed with the correct ICD10 codes and support the capturing of UPFS
and related billing processes. Responsible for resources (consumables and
assets) according to the supply chain procedures. Handle patient and public
enquiries, receive direct telephone calls, and communicate effectively with
patients, families and staff. Provide administrative support to the ward and
multidisciplinary teams (i.e. photocopying, filing of documentation, minute
taking etc.) Assist in the compilation and summarizing of statistical data and
submit monthly reports and perform other lawful duties as delegated by the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms P Fourie, Tel no: (021) 370-2489
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/202 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (WARD 7 AND 8, PSYCHOGERIATRIC (2
POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
157
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Alexandra Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years appropriate/ recognizable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness
to work shifts, day and night duty, weekends, and public holidays to meet the
operational requirements. Must be prepared to assist in all departments
according to operational requirements. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic computer skills in
MS Word, Excel, Outlook. Knowledge of relevant legislation and policies of the
Department of Health Western Cape.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Development and implementation of basic patient
care. Provide basic clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of physical and
financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Wiener, Tel no: (021) 503-5000/5030
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration with the
SANC (including individuals who must apply for change of registration status).
Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/203 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Hopefield CC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as an Enrolled Nurse. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None.
Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum
of 20 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration
with the SANC as a Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code
B/EB) driver’s license. Good interpersonal relations, willingness to travel and
relief in other clinics when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of the Nursing Act and relevant regulations Knowledge of the
Medicines Control Act, Mental Health Care Act, Child Health Act, and other
relevant legislation. Ability to work independently and in a multi-disciplinary
team.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs): Provide basic clinical nursing care. Development
and implementation of basic patient care plans. Effective utilization of
resources. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Community Participation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms CM Jooste, tel. no. (022) 814-0020
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted with their job application/on appointment. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
158
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status”
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/204 : STAFF NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (NURSING RELIEF)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R220 614 per annum
Grade 2: R262 287 per annum
Grade 3: R306 798 per annum
CENTRE : Stellenbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration
with SANC as Staff Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum
of 10 years appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with
the SANC as Staff Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with SANC as
Staff Nurse. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night
and day shifts, weekends, public holidays and overtime when necessary.
Willingness to work in all wards of the hospital. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good communication and interpersonal relationships. Basic
computer skills in MS Word, Excel. Enhance patient care through the
implementation of SOP’s, policies, and guidelines. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Development and implementation of basic patient
care. Provide basic clinical care in a resource constrained PHC setting.
Effective utilization of physical and financial resources. Maintain professional
growth/ethical standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. J Skippers, Tel no: (021) 808-6190
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/205 : FORENSIC PATHOLOGY OFFICER GRADE 1 TO 2 (2 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : Grade 1: R217 092 per annum
Grade 2: R252 840 per annum
CENTRE : Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute (OFPI), Forensic Pathology Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate with having achieved
Mathematics, Life Science and/ or Biology as passed subjects. Experience:
Grade 1: None. Grade 2: 10 year's appropriate experience. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid Code B/EB driver's license. Ability to interpret and
apply policies. Ability to work under pressure. Ability to work with and lift
corpses, (mutilated, decomposed, infectious viruses, obese). Be willing to work
shifts and overtime. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to communicate
clearly and discreetly in person and in writing. Ability to be trained in 4X4
Vehicle handling. Ability to be trained in photography. Willingness to assist with
duties in an X-ray room. Willingness to be trained in Forensic Investigation and
Dissection. Willingness to be trained in Forensic Pathology Business
Processes. Ability to achieve and maintain good interpersonal and working
relations with staff and clients. Computer and software literacy. Will be required
to deliver testimony in court proceedings.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Effective and efficient recovery, storage and
processing of deceased. An effective Forensic autopsy process rendered in
accordance with set standards and guidelines. Optimal control of reports and
statements during and after the Forensic Mortuary process. An effective and
efficient Management of Unknown corpses. An efficient support service to the
159
Manager with regard to Corporate and Clinical Governance functions of the
Observatory Forensic Pathology Institute.
ENQUIRIES : Mr RH Pietersen, email: Richard.Pietersen@westerncape.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The candidate
will be subjected to an interview and competency test. Candidates will be
subjected to security clearance prior to appointment. The pool of applicants will
be considered for vacancies within Forensic Pathology Service, Observatory
Forensic Pathology Institute for a period three months from the date of the
advert, provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements and
salary level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/206 : HOUSEKEEPING SUPERVISOR
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R193 359 per annum
CENTRE : Khayelitsha District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ Grade 9 (Std 7) Experience: Appropriate housekeeping experience in
a hospital environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work
shifts including weekends and public holidays, overtime and ability to lift heavy
objects. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Must have knowledge of hospital
cleaning protocols and procedures. Ability to manage and supervise
employees. Knowledge of hospital cleaning machinery, consumables and
equipment’s. Knowledge of hospital environmental hygiene, infection
prevention and control. Knowledge of hospital health care waste risk and linen
management. Knowledge of disciplinary procedure.
DUTIES : (key result areas/outputs): Maintain a high standard if cleanliness and hygiene
within with hospital environment. Oversee and control health care waste risk
and linen. Effective and efficient management and control of cleaning
equipment, material and machinery. Supervision of permanent staff and
outsourced cleaning staff. Provide general support to supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Gonya- Morara, Tel no: (021) 360-4229/4412
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/207 : NURSING ASSISTANT: GRADE 1 TO 3 (VARIOUS WARDS) (8 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R174 261 per annum
Grade 2: R203 271 per annum
Grade 3: R239 559 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years’
appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with the
SANC as a Nursing Assistant. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to
work shifts and public holidays. Annual receipt and license to practice.
Willingness to rotate within the hospital as per operational requirements.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic communication skills (both verbal and
written. Ability to function effectively as part of a team. Good human
relationships. The ability to render nursing care of an acceptable and safe
standard.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Assist patients with activities of daily living (physical
care). To provide elementary clinical nursing care. Effective utilization of
physical and financial resources. Maintain professional growth/ ethical
standards and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Franken, Tel No: (021) 658-5187
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
160
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/208 : TRADESMAN AID
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational requirement: Grade 10 (or equivalent). Experience:
Appropriate knowledge of hospital plant, laundry equipment and machinery.
Inherent requirement of the job: Physically fit to perform duties and work at
heights and in confined spaces. Work overtime should the need arise, day or
night, and perform standby duties. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license.
Willingness to travel and work at all Public Health Institutions within the Central
Karoo District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function
independently, plan (pro-active) and work in a team. Ability to adhere to safety
standards. Ability to handle conflict and problem-solving situations. Ability to
communicate effectively both verbal and written.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Routine Maintenance and repairs of equipment,
plant, and tools. Electrical, Mechanical, Plumping, Building and Infrastructure
maintenance and repairs. Ensure an organised and neat workshop / office
space. Job Requisitions and Administrative duties and functions. Adhere to
Occupational Health and Safety standards. Support to Supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Makwela, Tel No: (023) 414 - 8200
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short listed
applicants will be subjected to practical test
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/209 : STERILISATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R163 680 per annum
CENTRE : Mitchell’s Plain District Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience within the central
sterilization supply department. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness
to work shifts including weekends, public holidays and night duty.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to
work in a co-operative way within a team context.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Effective application of sterilisation processes and
techniques and promote adhere to infection control as well as health and safety
regulations. Decontamination, packing and sterilization of instruments linen
and supplies. Assist with cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment,
washing machine and autoclaves. Maintain equipment in an optimum working
condition and utilisation of resources. Use autoclaves, washing machines &
equipment/consumables in a cost-effective manner. Monitor, control and
maintain adequate stock levels. Report and assist with investigation of lost
instruments, equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Geswindt, Tel No: (021) 377-4410
APPLICATIONS : Applicants apply online: www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs (click “online
applications”)
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applications will be considered for vacancies within the Chief Directorate: Metro
Health Services, for a period of three months from the date of the advert,
provided that the job title, core functions, inherent requirements, and salary
level are the same as those of the advertised post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
161
POST 12/210 : CLEANER
West Coast Health District
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Malmesbury CDC
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate cleaning experience in a Health facility. Inherent requirements of
the job: Willingness to work at other clinics in the Sub-district. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): The ability to communicate. The ability to do physical tasks
and operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Responsible for cleaning duties, including sweeping,
dusting, mopping, scrubbing, polishing, refuse handling, cleaning windows and
interior walls; maintenance of general neatness and hygiene of the clinic area.
Effective and efficient utilization and storage of cleaning material and
equipment. Adhering to safety precautions and ensure adherence to
occupational health and safety policy. Support Waste Management Render
support to the Operational Manager with general housekeeping duties such as
control of cleaning and household equipment and care of linen. Attend in-
service training appropriate to service delivery. Adheres to loyal service ethics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr R Christoffels, Tel No: (022) 482-2729
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00PM
POST 12/211 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy. Experience: Appropriate
driving experience, including transportation of employees and delivery of
goods. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Valid Public Driving Permit (PDP). Physically fit and able to lift and load heavy
items. Work overtime as per needs requirement and perform standby duties
after hours, including weekends and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Must be able to speak clearly, read and write accurately.
Knowledge of Transport regulations (Handbook 1 of 2019). Ability to accept
accountability, responsibility and to work independently. Good interpersonal
and safe driving skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Transport goods, services, clients, medication,
equipment and personnel from one point to another. Transport of patients with
an escort. Deliver and collect all daily posts to the relevant institution on a daily
basis. Ensure accurate completion of logbooks. Conduct routine maintenance,
inspecting vehicles, and timely reporting of defects. Adhere to departmental
codes and procedures. Ensure that all vehicles are kept clean and tidy. Support
to the supervisor and Clinics when required.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Levy, Tel No: (021) 902-8077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. The pool of
applicants will be considered for similar vacant posts within the Chief
Directorate: Metro Health Services, for a period of 3 months from date of
advert. Candidates will be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/212 : DRIVER (LIGHT DUTY VEHICLE)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : False Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic literacy and numeracy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience within a healthcare environment. Inherent requirement
of the job: Valid Public Drivers Permit (IPDP). Code (B/EB/C1) driver’s license.
Work overtime and perform standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of Government Motor transport Handbook version 1 of 2019. Good
162
knowledge of road networks in the Peninsula. Ability to accept accountability
and responsibility and to work independently and unsupervised. Good
interpersonal and safe driving skills.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Transport goods, services, medication, equipment,
bloods and personnel from one point to another. Conduct routine cleaning,
maintenance, inspecting on vehicles and timely reporting of defects. Ensure
optimal utilization of vehicles. Render an effective messenger and support
service.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Shoosmith, Tel No: (021) 832-5211
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical/written and oral assessments.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
POST 12/213 : GROUNDSMAN
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R138 486 per annum
CENTRE : Eerste River Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic reading, writing and numerical skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a health-related environment. Appropriate
experience of workshop tools. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to
travel. Physically fit to do manual labor. Willingness to work overtime.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to handle tools, parts, and materials.
Ability to work in a team and independently. Knowledge of Occupational Health
and Safety.
DUTIES : Key result areas/outputs: Effective maintenance and cleaning of grounds.
Moving of assets and equipment in a safe manner. Effective removal of
domestic and medical waste. Clear areas where work has been carried out.
Responsible for the maintenance of machinery and equipment within the
grounds department. Ensure that tools and materials are available when
needed. Administration and support to colleagues and supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr J Levy, Tel No: (021) 902-8077
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
CLOSING DATE : 24 April 2026, 17:00 PM
163