PUBLIC SERVICE VACANCY CIRCULAR
PUBLICATION NO 28 OF 2026
DATE ISSUED 07 AUGUST 2026
1. Introduction
1.1 This Circular is, except during December, published on a weekly basis and contains the advertisements of vacant
posts and jobs in Public Service departments.
1.2 Although the Circular is issued by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department is not
responsible for the content of the advertisements. Enquiries about an advertisement must be addressed to the
relevant advertising department.
2. Directions to candidates
2.1 Applications on form Z83 with full particulars of the applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge
and experience (on a separate sheet if necessary or a CV) must be forwarded to the department in which the
vacancy/vacancies exist(s). NB: PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS MUST PLEASE USE THE NEW Z83 WHICH
IS EFFECTIVE AS AT 01 JANUARY 2021.
2.2 Applicants must indicate the reference number of the vacancy in their applications.
2.3 Applicants requiring additional information regarding an advertised post must direct their enquiries to the
department where the vacancy exists. The Department of Public Service and Administration must not be
approached for such information.
2.4 It must be ensured that applications reach the relevant advertising departments on or before the applicable
closing dates.
3. Directions to departments
3.1 The contents of this Circular must be brought to the attention of all employees.
3.2 It must be ensured that employees declared in excess are informed of the advertised vacancies. Potential
candidates from the excess group must be assisted in applying timeously for vacancies and attending where
applicable, interviews.
3.3 Where vacancies have been identified to promote representativeness, the provisions of sections 15 (affirmative
action measures) and 20 (employment equity plan) of the Employment Equity Act, 1998 should be applied.
Advertisements for such vacancies should state that it is intended to promote representativeness through the
filling of the vacancy and that the candidature of persons whose transfer/appointment will promote
representativeness, will receive preference.
3.4 Candidates must be assessed and selected in accordance with the relevant measures that apply to employment
in the Public Service.
4 SMS pre-entry certificate
4.1 To access the SMS pre-entry certificate course and for further details, please click on the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. For more information regarding the course
please visit the NSG website: www.thensg.gov.za.
AMENDMENT : PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTH WEST: DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT: Kindly note that the following post were advertised in Public Service
Vacancy Circular 27 dated 31 July 2026, Service Point Manager with Ref No
SD/1/4/26/E, HCM Production Clerk Appointments with Ref No SD /1/32/26/E have been
amended and should read as follows. Service Point Manager, no of posts per centre is
amended from (X2 Posts) to (X1 Post), Centre: Macquassi Hills (X1 Post), Kagisano
Lmolopo (X1 Post). The post of HCM Production Clerk: Appointment requirements have
been amended: A valid driver's licence has been removed from the requirements as a
requirement for the entry-level post. We apologise for any inconvenience caused.
INDEX
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DEPARTMENTS ANNEXURE PAGES
AGRICULTURE A 03 - 08
ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY B 09 - 11
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR C 12 - 13
FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT D 14 - 26
HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING E 27 - 31
HOME AFFAIRS F 32 - 33
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION G 34 - 36
JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT H 37 - 41
LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT I 42 - 50
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT J 51 - 59
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE K 60 - 64
PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION L 65 - 67
TOURISM M 68 - 71
TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS N 72
TREASURY O 73 - 76
WATER AND SANITATION P 77 - 82
WOMEN, YOUTH AND PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES Q 83 - 85
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATIONS
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION ANNEXURE PAGES
EASTERN CAPE R 86 - 88
GAUTENG S 89 - 95
KWAZULU NATAL T 96 - 122
LIMPOPO U 123 - 161
MPUMALANGA V 162 - 176
NORTHERN CAPE W 177
WESTERN CAPE X 178 - 195
2
ANNEXURE A
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (DOA)
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme. Appointment is subject to successful competition of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All shortlisted candidates, including SMS shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One must be a practical exercise, and the other must be
an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment. Selection panels shall score both
technical exercises as an additional criterion in the interview process. NB :
Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by applicants will
be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a criminal case
shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application before the
closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not submit duplicate
applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate applications for
each post. Due to high volumes, the Department will not acknowledge receipt
of applications. Communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If
you have not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application
to be unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. IMPORTANT: DOA is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: The Department of Agriculture wishes to inform the public about
the withdrawal of the advertisement for two (02) positions. Chief Director:
Cooperatives Development with Ref No: 3/3/1/67/2025, advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy Circular 11 dated 27 March 2026, and Scientific
Technician Production Grade A with Ref No: 3/3/1/37/2026, advertised in the
Public Service Vacancy Circular 18 dated 29 May 2027. The Department likes
to apologise for any inconvenience this withdrawal might cause.
3
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/01 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT REF NO: 3/3/1/66/2026
Directorate: Stakeholder and Intergovernmental Relations
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive remuneration package to be
structured in accordance with the rules for MMS)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and National
Diploma Public Administration / Public Management / Business Administration
/ Business Management. Minimum of 3 years’ experience at junior
management level in administration environment. Job related knowledge:
Knowledge of Supply Chain Management process. Knowledge of government
systems and structure. Public Service Regulations. Treasury Regulations.
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Preferential Procurement Policy
Framework Act. Knowledge on Departmental transversal system (Basic
Accounting System (BAS), Personnel and Salary Administration (PERSAL),
Logistical Information System (LOGIS). Knowledge of legislation, policies and
procedure: The Constitution, Good governance and Batho-Pele principles,
Public Finance Management Act, Public Service Regulations, Government
decision making processes, Government systems and structures. Job related
skills: Planning and organising skills. Analytical skill. Document management
skills. Office management skills. Financial Management skills. Interpersonal
skills. Computer skills. Resource planning skills. Problem solving and decision-
making skills. Time management skills. Communication skills. A valid driver’s
licence. Willingness to travel and / or work irregular hours. Ability to work under
pressure.
DUTIES : Manage the coordination of financial management services. Ensure sufficient
budget for expenditure incurred. Certify correctness of invoices. Compile
budget inputs. Ensure Medium Term Expenditure Framework processes are
adhered to. Ensure that expenditure is within the correct allocation. Take
precaution of unauthorised, wasted or fruitless irregular expenditure. Manage
the administration support services. Coordinate the development/reviewal of
operational / strategic plan. Oversee logistical arrangements. Manage office
accommodation. Manage registry services. Compile reports. Attend to queries
from Internal Audit. Provide secretariat support services. Oversee the drafting
of minutes and signing off where applicable. Manage the procurement of
goods and services. Manage the compilation of Demand Management Plan.
Facilitate supply chain management services. Facilitate monthly, quarterly, and
annual reporting on SCM related matters. Manage the safekeeping, utilisation
and maintenance of all assets. Ensure proper administration of sourcing and
evaluation of quotations. Handle queries from internal and external clients
relating to supply chain matters. Manage compliance with regards to the
implementation, interpretation and application of administration policies.
Promote adherence to policies such as Public Finance Management Act,
Procurement, Human Resource, Transport and Records management policies.
Develop administrative policies procedures and provide inputs for policy
development. Manage the coordination of human resources support services.
Manage all training requirement and activities. Manage the component equity
plan and ensure vacancies are filled accordingly. Manage recruitment process.
Manage leave record. Ensure that quarterly and annual Employee
Performance Management and Development System evaluations for the
component are done.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Chris Khonkwane at (069) 007 9989
APPLICATIONS Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
DDASrecruit66@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Female and Persons with disability.
POST 28/02 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO: 3/3/1/67/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and National
Diploma in Logistics Management/ Supply Chain Management/ Public
Management (NQF Level 6). Minimum of 3 years’ supervisory level in Asset
4
Management. Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Public Finance
Management Act. Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Broad Based Black
Economic Empowerment. LOGIS (Logistic Information Systems). BAS (Basic
Accounting System). BAUD (Asset Register System) Modified Cash
Standards. Accounting Manual for Departments. Job related skills: Leadership
skills. Management skills, Computer skills, Project Management skills and a
valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Promote correct implementation of sound asset management practices.
Inform, guide and advise departmental employees on asset management
matters. Contribute to the design and development of asset management
systems, policies, strategic and annual physical asset management planning.
Monitor and review the progress of the asset verification. Compile and manage
the asset verification in the Department. Capture asset information on the
inventory list (room list) of the asset holder and in the relevant registers. Issue
assets and inventory list (room list) list of asset holders. Ensure the movement
of assets in the register. Monitor assets for physical condition, utilization
functionality and financial performance. Manage the bar coding of all movable
assets. Approve of the movable asset register updates. Manage the disposal
of assets in the department. Manage the disposal and transfer of assets
process in the department. Supervise the receipt and issue of all movable
assets in the department. Perform quantity and quality control. Ensure that
assets are removed from the register after approval. Compile memorandums
and reports on the disposals to the Disposal Committee. Ensure correct
financial reporting. Manage the additions and reconciliation process between
BAS and the Asset Register. Ensure journals are requested to amend
misclassifications. Prepare financial information for financial statement
purposes. Supervise employees to ensure sound physical asset management.
This would, inter alia, entail the following: General supervision of employees.
Allocate duties and do quality control of the work delivered by supervisees.
Advise and lead supervisors regarding all aspects of the work. Manage
performance, conduct and discipline of supervisors. Ensure that all supervisors
are trained and developed to be able to deliver work of the required standard
efficiently and effectively. Develop, implement and monitor work systems and
processes to ensure efficient and effective functioning. Address enquiries and
provide advice and guidance on asset allocation and control.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Goolam Tel No: (012) 312 8395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
ADAMrecruit67@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male and Coloured Male and Persons with disability.
POST 28/03 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: DEMAND MANAGEMENT REF
NO: 3/3/1/70/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a National Diploma in Purchasing
Management / Supply Chain Management / Public Administration
(Management) / Logistics / Business Management (Administration). Minimum
of 2 years’ experience in Demand Management and Acquisition Management
environment. Job related knowledge: Public Finance Management Act.
Treasury Regulations. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA) and its associated regulations. Departmental SCM procedures and
policies. Job related skills: Computer literacy. Interpersonal skills.
Administrative skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Supervisory
skills. Ability to work in a team. Working under pressure. A Valid divers’ license.
DUTIES : Administer departmental requests: Source quotations. Compile comparative
schedule. Check compliance. Implement and maintain effective systems and
procedures for supplier’s registration and accreditation: Guide and assist with
the registration and accreditation of suppliers databased of National Treasury.
Administer budget and administrative tasks for bid committee division: Source
proposal from suppliers. Manage the invitation of quotation from the database
and update the database for suppliers. Draft and package the submission to
the Bid Committee for proposal. Prepare comparative schedule in terms of the
preferential procurement policy. Framework Act and regulations. Maintain an
efficient and effective system of procurement of goods and services: Compile
5
reports. Manage the spreadsheet of the request: Compile a spreadsheet.
Update and distribute spreadsheet to clients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Goolam Tel No: (012) 312 8395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SSCPDMrecruit70@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male and Female and Coloured female and Persons with
disability.
POST 28/04 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: BIDS REF NO: 3/3/1/69/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Degree/National Diploma in Purchasing
Management/ Supply Chain Management/ Public Administration
(Management) / Logistics / Business Management (Administration). Minimum
of 2 years’ experience in Demand Management and Acquisition Management
environment. Job-related knowledge: Public Finance Management Act.
Treasury Regulations. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA) and its associated regulations. Departmental SCM procedures and
policies. Job-related skills: Computer literacy. Interpersonal skills.
Administrative skills. Written and verbal communication skills. Supervisory
skills. Ability to work in a team. Working under pressure. A valid diver’s license.
DUTIES : Implement standard operating procedures, SC policy and delegations of
authority in bids unit: Adhere to the SCM prescripts for all bidding processed.
Render advisory and secretariat services to appointed specification and bid
evaluation committee meetings. Render Bids administration: Render advisory
and secretariate services to appointed specification and bid evaluation
committee meetings. Prepare bud documents. Partake and ensure adherence
to SCM prescripts during specification meetings. Arrange and attend briefing
sessions. Close and open tenders. Conduct compliance checks on bid
proposals received. Arrange and attend evaluation sessions. Prepare bid
evaluation reports. Present bid evaluation reports to Bid Adjudication
Committee (BAC). Prepare management information, statistics and reporting
on Bids: Provide weekly reports on progress of projects. Update the bid
register. Undertake all administration functions required with regard to financial
and human resource administration: Supervise staff. Ensure that the unit’s
procurement is undertaken in line with the Demand Management Plan.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Goolam Tel No: (012) 312 8395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SSCPBrecruit69@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male and Female and Coloured female and Persons with
disability.
POST 28/05 : SENIOR SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: /3/1/68/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and National
Diploma in Logistic Management/ Supply Chain Management/ Public
Management (NQF Level 6). Minimum of 2 years’ experience working in Asset
Management. Job-related knowledge: Knowledge of Treasury Regulations.
Knowledge of Public Finance Management Act. Preferential Procurement
Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) and its associated regulations. Knowledge of
Departmental SCM procedures and policy. Knowledge of Asset management
prescripts and procedures. Job related skills: Communication skills (verbal and
written), Management skills, Interpersonal skills, Organising skills, Teamwork,
Working under pressure, LOGIS, A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure effective management of assets. Conduct training in assets
management. Provide support to client offices. Ensure compliance with
Departmental asset management policies and procedures. Maintain the
departmental asset register. Compile and maintain asset register in the
Department. Ensure bar coding of assets. Capture newly acquired asset
6
according to the set standard. Ensure movement of assets is properly recorded
and processed. Retire assets from the asset register due to disposals, thefts
and losses. Reconcile between asset register and BAS on monthly basis.
Ensure effective filling system of all asset management records. Perform
assets verification and spot checks. Verify assets of the Department annually.
Ensure spot checks quarterly. Reconcile assets on the floor with the asset
register according to the verification plan. Identify obsolete and redundant
assets for disposal as per standards. Recommend redundant assets for
disposal. Maintain the barcoded asset system/register. Ensure that all procured
assets are barcoded for identification purposes. Keep proper register for
barcoding. Conduct backups. Provide monthly, quarterly and annual reports for
financial reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Goolam Tel No: (012) 312 8395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SSCPAMrecruit68@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male and Female and Coloured female and Persons with
disability.
POST 28/06 : SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTITIONER: ASSET MANAGEMENT REF NO:
3/3/1/71/2026
Directorate: Demand and Acquisition Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12 Certificate and National
Diploma in Logistic Management / Supply Chain Management / Public
Management (NQF Level 6). 1 year experience working in Asset Management.
Job related knowledge: Knowledge of Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of
Public Finance Management Act. Knowledge of Supply Chain Management
and Government Asset Policy. Knowledge of BAS systems. Knowledge of
LOGIS (Asset Register). Job related skills: Communication skills (verbal and
written), Supervisory skills, Good interpersonal relations skills, Time
management skills, Organizing and office administration skills, Computer
Literacy, Report writing skills. Report writing skills, Teamwork, Working under
pressure, Record keeping skills, People management skills, Monitoring and
evaluation skills, Negotiation and conflict resolution skills, Customer focus skills
and Computer literacy skills. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : Ensure effective management of assets. Conduct training in assets
management. Provide support to client offices. Ensure compliance with
Departmental asset management policies and procedures. Maintain the
departmental asset register. Compile and maintain asset register in the
Department. Ensure bar coding of assets. Capture newly acquired asset
according to the set standard. Ensure movement of assets is properly recorded
and processed. Retire assets from the asset register due to disposals, thefts
and losses. Reconcile between asset register and BAS on monthly basis.
Ensure effective filling system of all asset management records. Perform
assets verification and spot checks. Verify assets of the Department annually.
Ensure spot checks quarterly. Reconcile assets on the floor with the asset
register according to the verification plan. Identify obsolete and redundant
assets for disposal as per standards. Recommend redundant assets for
disposal. Maintain the barcoded asset register. Ensure that all procured assets
are barcoded for identification purposes. Maintain a proper barcode register.
Administer the departmental asset register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Goolam Tel No: (012) 312 8395
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
SCPAMrecruit71@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male and Female and White Male and Persons with
disability.
POST 28/07 : VETTING INVESTIGATOR REF NO: 3/3/1/72/2026
Directorate: Vetting, Screening and Special Investigation
Re-advertisement, candidates who applied previously are encouraged to re-
apply
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
7
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of grade 12 Certificate. A Bachelor’s Degree
/ National Diploma in Security Risk Management, Police Science and Policing
(NQF6). Must obtain a Top Security Clearance within a year of appointment.
Minimum of 2 years of experience in the field of security vetting. Job related
knowledge: Knowledge on security vetting administration. Extensive
knowledge in general administration. Job related skills: Communication skills,
Facilitation skills, Computer literacy, Report writing skills, Presentation skills,
Listening skills and Interpersonal relations skills. A valid driver’s licence and
willingness to travel on a regular basis.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting fieldwork investigations. Gather relevant information. Conduct
proper analysis and quality checks on the information. Compile and submit
reports to management and State Security Agency (SSA) on all vetting files
and reports completed on a regular basis. Conduct vetting investigations in
respect of confidential and secret levels. Provide inputs for the development
and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and standards in vetting
investigations. Analyse, research and evaluate all vetting related information.
Provide advice and guidance on the interpretation and application of
legislation, policies and procedures. Provide effective communication channels
and systems between the Department and the State Security Agency (SSA)
and other related agencies. Liaise regularly with State Security Agency (SSA),
South African Police Service (SAPS), South African Secret Service (SASS),
Defence, Department of Home Affairs and other critical stakeholders for advice
and assistance to obtain additional information. Administer vetting files and
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Mandla Mnguni Tel No: (012) 319 7127
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to 20 Steve
Biko Street, Agriculture Place, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0002 or by email
VIrecruit72@nda.gov.za
NOTE : EE Target: African Male and Female and Persons with disability.
8
ANNEXURE B
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND ENERGY
The Department of Electricity and Energy (DEE) is an equal opportunity; affirmative action employer and
it is its intention to promote representativity in the Public Sector through the filling of this post(s).
Persons whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representativity are encouraged to apply,
particularly persons with disabilities and women interested in senior management positions. An
indication of such, in this regard will be vital in the processing of applications.
APPLICATIONS : Submit your completed application using one of the following methods, post:
The Director-General, Department of Electricity and Energy, Private Bag X96,
Pretoria, 0001, or hand deliver at Matimba House Building 192 Visagie Street
(Corner Paul Kruger & Visagie Street), Pretoria, or email directly to the email
address dedicated to a specific post. General enquiries may be brought to the
attention of Ms M Palare 012 406 7426.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026 at 16h00 (Walk-in) 23h59 (online). N.B: It is the sole
responsibility of an applicant to ensure that their application reaches the
Department on or before the set deadline.
NOTE : Applicants are informed to submit their application(s) by completing the 2021
version of the Z83 form quoting the relevant reference number and a
comprehensive CV only. The CV must indicate qualifications, experience “if
any” and the period thereof. The 2021 version of the Z83 form is obtainable at
www.dpsa.gov.za or www.gov.za/documents. It is important to ensure that the
Z83 is completed in full. This means that all fields of Section A, B, C and D of
the Z83 must be completed in full. It is acceptable under section E, F, G, for
applicants to indicate “refer to CV or see attached” due to the limited space
provided on the Z83 form. However, the question relating to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, but if you are already
in Public Service just indicate “N/A”. Please initial the form and sign the
declaration. Email application(s) must strictly be submitted as one (1) PDF
document or attachment (i.e. Z83 and CV scanned as one PDF document). It
is also important to indicate the correct job title and the reference number of
the post on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address
associated with the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be
accepted. Failure to do so, your application will be disqualified. Applications
submitted using the incorrect application form (old Z83) will not be considered.
Each advertised post must be accompanied by its own application for
employment. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of
the interview. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications must submit an
evaluation report issued by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
if shortlisted. The Department does not accept applications via fax. Applicants
who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well
as applications received late will not be considered. Failure to submit all the
requested documents will result in the application not being considered. If you
have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts
will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. No SMS post appointment
shall be implemented without the relevant candidate producing the pre-entry
certificate for SMS (Nyukela) obtainable from www.thensg.gov.za . Suitable
candidates will be subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record,
citizenship, credit record checks, qualification verification and employment
verification). Please note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to
the collection, processing, and storing of your Personal Information in
accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA). Your
information will be used solely for the administration of the recruitment process
or possible employment and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the right not to make
any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s) at any stage of the
9
recruitment process. The successful candidate will be expected to enter into a
performance agreement within three (3) months from the date of appointment.
ERRATUM: Kindly note that the following posts were advertised in Public
Service Vacancy Circular 12 dated 10 April 2026, Deputy Director: Demand,
Acquisition and Contract Ref No: DEE2026/001 and Administrative Officer:
Demand Management Ref No: DEE2026/003; the post has been withdrawn
due to the Department’s Re-Organization Design Project.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/08 : DIRECTOR: SOC GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL ASSURANCE REF NO:
DEE2026/015
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate degree in Business Administration and/or Legal Studies at NQF
level 7 recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), plus
the pre-entry certificate for SMS (Nyukela). Plus 5 years of experience at the
middle/senior managerial level in Legal or Corporate Governance. Knowledge
of: Legislative and policy prescripts relevant to the Department and its SOE’s.
Corporate governance as it applies to the public and private sector, Company
law, PFMA, Project Management, Strategic Planning, Risk Management and
strong legal background. Skills: Communication, Financial Management,
Problem-solving and Analytical skills. Honesty and integrity; change
management, strategic capability and leadership. Service delivery innovation,
people management and empowerment. Thinking Demand: Information
evaluation; decision-making, creativity, Tact, work individuality and in a group.
DUTIES : Undertake the development of standardised SOC governance review and
reporting instruments. Lead or partake in SOC governance assurance projects
to assess compliance and enable DEE management structures to facilitate
corrective action where required. Provide technical advisory services to
executive management and the shareholder on the appointment and dismissal
of SOC Board Members. Develop coordinate the implementation of the DEE’s
legal assurance policy regime and standardised legal instrument assurance
framework for the SOC Group. Align existing and/or develop legal instruments
for the governance of SOC’s in the group. Draft legal opinions on the
shareholder interface process with SOC Boards. Manage the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr James Dlamini Tel No: (012) 406 7577
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies1@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Females from all races, African, Indians, Coloured and White are encouraged
to apply.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/09 : ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND COORDINATION OFFICER REF NO:
DEE2026/016
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Diploma/ Degree in Public Administration at NQF Level 6
recognised by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA), Experience in
Government and/or NGO/CBO sector and advantage experience of
Parliamentary/legislative process and advantage research as an added
advantage. Knowledge of: Ministry operations, political and parliamentary
process in South African Board. Knowledge and understanding of the
functional areas covered by the executing authority’s portfolio. Knowledge of
public service policy and Energy Sector prescripts. Skills: Problem Solving,
Communication (Verbal, written), Good organisational and interpersonal skills,
computer and liaison skills. Thinking Demands: Creative, Strategic, Evaluation
and decision making.
DUTIES : Manage the administrative activities within the office of the executive authority.
Liaise with internal and external role players with regard to matters relating to
the portfolio of the executive authority. Render cabinet/executive council
support service to the executive authority. Supervise employees.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Lindiwe Morwenyane Tel No: (012) 406 7676
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies2@dee.gov.za
10
NOTE : Females from these races, Indians, Coloured and White are encouraged to
apply.
POST 28/10 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ENERGY STATISTICS REF NO: DEE2026/017
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Advanced Diploma/Degree in Statistics, Economics,
Quantitative Management, Mathematics, Qualitative Management, Energy
Studies and Datametrics at NQF Level 7 recognised by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA), plus 3 years’ relevant experience. Knowledge
of: Energy industry, Data management, Project Management principles.
Understanding data sourcing and collection technique (e.g. various sampling
techniques that may be used to conduct different types of surveys), Data
Quality Framework, Data and statistical analysis. Skills: Communication and
interpersonal skills, Project Management and negotiation skills, Computer,
Time Management and Statistical analysis skills. Thinking Demands: Rigorous
non-corruption thinking, Analytical mindset and up to date with global issues
regarding energy.
DUTIES : Collect all data and information required for planning and reporting from various
data providers. Ensure proper storage, management and retrieval of data.
Quality assurance and control of data. Compile monthly
questionnaires/reports. Compile energy commodity flows for coal, electricity,
petroleum products and natural gas. Provide managerial activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thomas Mashapha Tel No: (012) 406 7550
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies3@dee.gov.za
NOTE : Males from these races, Indians, Coloured and White are encouraged to apply.
POST 28/11 : NUCLEAR ENERGY OFFICER: NUCLEAR SAFETY, LIABILITIES AND
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT REF NO: DEE2026/018
SALARY : R413 001 per annum (Level 08)
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Degree in Natural Science (major in Physical Sciences and
Chemistry) at NQF Level 7 recognised by the South African Qualification
Authority (SAQA), plus a minimum of 1 year experience in the field of science.
Knowledge of: Nuclear policy and legislation, Nuclear Energy in general,
Government processes. knowledge of common approaches to legislative
aspects of Nuclear Liabilities Service Act. Skills: Communication, report writing,
computer and problem-solving skills. Listening; Analytical, interpersonal and
basic research skills. Thinking Demands: Demonstrated sound judgement in
applying professional expertise to identify problems and contribute to their
solutions. Ability to analyse information. Commitment to the DEE’s strategy and
the ability to apply organizational policies and procedures.
DUTIES : Consolidate Nuclear Safety, Liabilities and Emergency management
information. Collect information on the methodologies, technologies and good
practices for management of nuclear safety liabilities and emergency impacts
on our legislations. Provide assistance in the implementation of the Nuclear
Emergency projects to ensure adequate emergency preparedness and
response. Participate in the Departmental activities towards the convention on
Nuclear Safety, the joint convention, Convention on Early Notification and
Convention of assistance in cases of an Emergency. Liaise with relevant
stakeholders regarding the Nuclear Safety related matters. Provide Secretariat
Support for the Directorate Safety and Emergency Management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Thabiso Pie Tel No: (012) 406 7504
APPLICATIONS : Email to Vacancies4@dee.gov.za
11
ANNEXURE C
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of this
post with a candidate whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in our Employment Equity plan.
APPLICATIONS : Chief Director: Human Resources Management: Private Bag X117, Pretoria,
0001 or hand deliver at 215 Francis Baard Street, Pretoria.
FOR ATTENTION : Sub-directorate: Human Resources Operations, Head Office
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted on the
new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial and sign the Z83 form will lead to
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83 it is acceptable for applicants to indicate
refer to CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered and declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV with detailed experience if any
and a completed and signed new Z83 application form is required. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following the communication from Human Resources and such qualification(s)
and other related document(s) will be in line with the requirements of the advert.
Non-RSA Citizens/Permanent Resident Permit holders in possession of foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the
South African Qualification Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted).
Applicants who do not comply with the abovementioned instructions/
requirements, as well as applications received late will not be considered.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, citizenship, credit
record checks, qualification verification and employment verification). Please
note by responding to the advertisement, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information in accordance with the
Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA) Your information will be used
soley for the purpose of this promotion and will not be shared with third parties
without prior consent unless required by law. The Department reserves the
right not to make any appointment(s) to the below advertised post(s). The
Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The
Employment Equity Plan of the Department shall inform the employment
decision. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and
disability) through the filling of this post(s)
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/12 : REGISTRY CLERK: OFFICE OF THE DG REF NO: GAP-PRET-91903840-
20260730-1
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation/ Grade 12. No experience. Knowledge: Departmental Policies,
Public Services Regulation Act, Public Finance Management Act, Management
Information Systems, National Archive and Records Services of South Africa
Act no 43 of 1996. Skills: Communication, Interpersonal Relations, Problem
Solving, Organizing, Computer literacy, Coordination.
12
DUTIES : Maintain the smooth, efficient and effective flow of documents (receive and
distribute) between the office of the Director General, the Department and other
structures like cluster committees, external role players etc. File all documents
in accordance with the File Plan Office of the Director -General and relevant
prescripts i.e. the National Archives Act and Management of Information
System Prescripts. Provide general administrative support function in the office
of the Director-General. Study the relevant Public Service and Departmental
prescripts and other documents and ensure that the application thereof is
understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VE Myeki Tel No: (012) 309 4969
APPLICATIONS : Online application use the link:
Https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Males, Coloured Male, Indian Male
and Female, People living with disabilities and White Male and Female.
POST 28/13 : ADMIN CLERK: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO: GAP-PRET-91903840-
20260730-2
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Matriculation / Grade 12. No experience. Knowledge: Knowledge of Public
Finance Management, Understanding of Supply Chain Management Act,
Knowledge of customer relations to Batho Pele Principles, Good interpersonal
relations and ability to work various stakeholders. Skills: Strong sense of
urgency and accountability, must be customer focused, Interpersonal
relationship, Excellent customer focused.
DUTIES : Render administrative services in tracking service delivery in accordance with
SLA. Render quality control and inspection for cleaning services. Record
service delivery issue and instances of non-compliance. Provide efficient and
effective administration support for the unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr G Motaung Tel No: (012) 309 4941
APPLICATIONS : Online application use the link:
Https://essa.labour.gov.za/EssaOnline/WebBeans/
NOTE : EE targets-Priority will be given to African Female, Coloured Female, Indian
Male and Female, People living with disabilities and White Male.
13
ANNEXURE D
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY, FISHERIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative
action employer.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/14 : DIRECTOR: STATE FOREST MANAGEMENT REF NO: FOM71/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive annual salary package)
CENTRE : Limpopo / Mpumalanga
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification in Forestry or Natural Resource Management
(NQF 7) or relevant qualification within the related field recognized by SAQA.
A minimum of Five (5) years of experience in Commercial Forestry or related
field at middle / senior managerial level within the related field. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by
the National School of Government (NSG) must be submitted prior to
appointment. Furthermore, all shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Knowledge of relevant policies, legislations and frameworks relating to Forestry
e.g. National Forests Act, 1998 (Act No 84 of 1998) (NFA) and the National
Veld and Forest Fire Act, 1998 (Act No 101 of 1998) (NVFFA). Knowledge and
understanding of all relevant legislation and regulations that govern the Public
Service including Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and treasury
regulations, Public Service Act, Labour Relations Act etc. Knowledge and
understanding of National Priorities of government e.g. National Development
Plan 2030, Commercial Forestry Sector Master Plan, Accelerated and shared
growth Initiative South Africa. Knowledge and understanding of Silviculture and
Harvesting practices in relation to sustainable management of biological
assets. Skills: Programme and Project Management, Financial Management,
Change Management, Knowledge Management and People Management and
Empowerment. Ability to negotiate in difficult situations and to resolve conflict.
Good interpersonal relations skills. Good Communication skills. A valid Driving
license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage the state-owned plantations and implement the annual plan of
operations for the plantations. Manage State Forests, personnel and
associated assets. Develop and implement Fire Management Plans, Ensure
the implementation of Sustainable Forest Management in line with the National
Forest Act and National Veld and Forest Fire Act. Proactive mitigation of audit
risks, develop and implement audit interventions. Stakeholder Liaison. Provide
post settlement support and support state forest Land administration and State
Forest Land transfer programmes. Plan and initiate EPWP to serve as force
multiplier for commercial forestry operations.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Leseke at 072 199 1291
APPLICATIONS : FOM71-2026@dffe.gov.za
Cape Town, North West (Forestry), Eastern Cape, Free State,
Mpumalanga and Limpopo: Must be submitted to the Director-General,
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director:
Integrated Human Resource Management, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town,
8000 or hand-deliver to 63 Strand Street, Cape Town or can be emailed to the
respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications, identity document and driver’s license on or
before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to
14
appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated groups in terms
of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply. Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-
listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine their suitability for employment, including but not limited to: Criminal
records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment
(reference checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will
be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for
SMS that was introduced on 1 April 2015, a requirement for all applicants for
SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at the NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be
obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must
provide proof of successful completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/15 : PRODUCTION ENGINEER GRADE A: GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER REF
NO: CWM05/2026
SALARY : R914 517 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Engineering or relevant qualification as recognised by
SAQA, plus three (3) years’ post qualification experience in a related field.
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a professional Engineering. Must
understand the policy and legislative framework governing pollution and waste
management. Sound analytical and research skills. Ability to manage and plan
for activities, including projects and policy matters. Knowledge of National
Waste Management Strategy. Ability to develop, interpret and apply polices,
strategies and legislation. Knowledge and experience in water use, waste
management, water resource infrastructure design and mining facilities design,
operation and reviews procedures. Knowledge of Waste Classification and
Management Regulations. Knowledge of National Norms and Standards for
the Assessment of Waste for Landfill Disposal. Knowledge of Norms and
Standard for Disposal of Waste to Landfill. Good interpersonal relations skills,
Stakeholder engagement, Strategic Capability and Leadership skills.
Knowledge of relevant engineering Standards. The incumbent must be able to
work independently and efficiently under pressure as well as part of a
multidisciplinary team. A valid Driver’s license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Review and analyse geotechnical information to support the approval of
engineering drawings and designs submitted for waste management licence
applications, variations and 24G application. Develop and implement
methodologies, policies, systems and procedures for geotechnical information
products and applications to be utilise in the review and analysis of
15
geotechnical studies. Gather, analyse and disseminate geotechnical
information to support the Directorate in reviewing applications and assessing
the performance of licensed sites. Develop and implement screening tool for
drawing and designs that accompanies waste applications. Screening
engineering drawings and designs submitted to department with waste
applications. Develop and implement case management system for
engineering drawings submitted with waste applications. Process registrations
in terms of National Norms and Standards for Waste. Provide support in the
development of guidelines to ensure that engineering designs and drawings
meet engineering standards. Process registration for National Norms and
Standards and exclusion authorisation. Review of Geotech Studies and climate
change studies for submitted waste applications. Develop guidelines for
climate change studies in connection with waste activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Phaladi Tel No: (012) 399 9852
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.environment.gov.za/
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the above link.
Applicant must ensure that they complete all sections on the online Z83 and
attached a detailed CV with at least three (3) contactable references. Failure
to complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the
applicant. No late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. By
submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013
(Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide to the DFFE
to being processed by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet
committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with
the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
16
POST 28/16 : PRODUCTION ENGINEER GRADE A: CIVIL ENGINEER REF NO:
CWM06/2026
SALARY : R914 517 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in Engineering or relevant qualification as recognised by
SAQA, plus three (3) years’ post qualification experience in hydraulic,
environmental engineering and geotechnical engineering. Compulsory
registration with ECSA as a professional Engineering. Knowledge and
experience in water use, waste management, water resource infrastructure
design and mining facilities design, operation and reviews procedures.
Knowledge of Waste Classification and Management Regulations. Knowledge
of National Norms and Standards for the Assessment of Waste for Landfill
Disposal. Knowledge of Norms and Standard for Disposal of Waste to Landfill.
Must understand the policy and legislative framework governing pollution and
waste management. Sound analytical and research skills. Ability to manage
and plan for activities, including projects and policy matters. Knowledge of
National Waste Management Strategy. Ability to develop, interpret and apply
polices, strategies and legislation. Good interpersonal relations skills,
Stakeholder engagement, Strategic Capability and Leadership skills.
Knowledge of relevant engineering standards. The incumbent must be able to
work independently and efficiently under pressure as well as part of a
multidisciplinary team. A valid Driver’s license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Manage and evaluate engineering drawings and designs submitted for new
waste management license applications, variations and sections 24G waste
management applications. Screen, review and approve design reports and
drawings for new waste license applications, variation, 24G applications and
registration in terms National Norms and Standards established in terms of
Waste Act. Manage approval process for construction quality assurance and
construction completion reports of waste facilities being licensed. Screen,
review and approve construction quality assurance and construction
completion report. Manage approval of alternative material to geosynthetic
materials for the purpose of beneficial use in terms of exclusion regulations.
Manage and develop case management system to support the Directorate in
managing Engineering drawings and designs. Provide technical and research
support. Conduct research of alternative waste material which will perform
equivalent to geosynthetic material. Develop guidelines for engineering
designs and drawings to ensure that relevant engineering standards are met.
Develop guidelines for climate change studies in relation to waste activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Phaladi Tel No: (012) 399 9852
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.environment.gov.za/
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the above link.
Applicant must ensure that they complete all sections on the online Z83 and
attached a detailed CV with at least three (3) contactable references. Failure
to complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the
applicant. No late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
17
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. By
submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013
(Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide to the DFFE
to being processed by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet
committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with
the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/17 : PRODUCTION ENGINEER GRADE A: RISK ASSESSMENT REF NO:
CWM04/2026
SALARY : R914 517 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering or relevant qualification as
recognised by SAQA, plus three (3) years’ post qualification experience in
hydraulic, environmental engineering and geotechnical engineering.
Compulsory registration with ECSA as a professional Engineering. Knowledge
of beneficial use of waste and National Waste Management Strategy.
Knowledge and understanding of quantitative and qualitative risk assessment.
Knowledge of waste characterization and risk profiling. Must understand the
policy and legislative framework governing pollution and waste management.
Sound analytical and research skills. Ability to manage and plan for activities,
including projects and policy matters. Knowledge and experience in contract
management. Ability to develop, interpret and apply polices, strategies and
legislation. Good interpersonal relations skills, Stakeholder engagement,
Strategic Capability and Leadership skills. Knowledge of relevant engineering
standards. The incumbent must be able to work independently and efficiently
under pressure as well as part of a multidisciplinary team. A valid Driver’s
license and willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Review risk assessment report and risk management plan in accordance with
exclusion regulations. Develop National Threshold Inventory to inform quality
of waste to be excluded for beneficial use. Develop methodology and
procedures to determine the threshold and risk of waste material to be
excluded. Develop database of beneficial use of different waste streams.
Process registration for National Norms and Standards for Waste. Develop and
implement quantitative and qualitative assessment tool for exclusion
application. Provide technical and research support to licensing Directorate on
development of inventory for products derived waste. Develop quality
standards for safe compost and organic waste. Research on products from
wastes and parameters that need to be maintained to ensure that environment
is not compromised. Develop housekeeping Standards for the storage of
storage and handling of hazardous waste. Develop and implement SOP for
exclusion applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Phaladi Tel No: (012) 399 9852
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.environment.gov.za/
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the above link.
Applicant must ensure that they complete all sections on the online Z83 and
attached a detailed CV with at least three (3) contactable references. Failure
to complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the
applicant. No late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
18
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. By
submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013
(Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide to the DFFE
to being processed by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet
committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with
the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/18 : SCIENTIST PRODUCTION GRADE A: GEOHYDROLOGY REF NO:
CWM07/2026
SALARY : R791 604 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Bachelor’s of Science Honours degree as recognised by SAQA, plus three (3)
years’ post qualification experience in natural science. Compulsory registration
with SACNASP as a professional Natural Science. Knowledge of Climate
Change adaptation and mitigation. Must understand the policy and legislative
framework governing pollution and waste management. Sound analytical and
research skills. Ability to manage and plan for activities, including projects and
policy matters. Knowledge and experience in contract management. Ability to
develop, interpret and apply polices, strategies and legislation. Good
interpersonal relations skills, Stakeholder engagement, Strategic Capability
and Leadership skills. Knowledge of National Waste Management Strategy.
The incumbent must be able to work independently and efficiently under
pressure as well as part of a multidisciplinary team. A valid Driver’s license and
willingness to travel.
DUTIES : Review and analyse geohydrological information to support the approval of
engineering drawing and designs submitted for new waste management
license applications, variations and 24G applications. Develop and implement
methodologies, policies, system and procedures for geohydrological
information products and applications to be utilised in the review and analysis
19
of geohydrological studies. Gather, analyse and disseminate geohydrological
information to support the Directorate in reviewing applications and assessing
the performance of licensed sites. Provide support in approving design
drawings and engineering for expansion of listed waste activity or any
modification on licensed facilities. Process registration in terms of National
Norms and Standards and the exclusion authorisation. Reviews climate
change geohydrology and climate change studies that accompanies waste
licence applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Phaladi Tel No: (012) 399 9852
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.environment.gov.za/
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the above link.
Applicant must ensure that they complete all sections on the online Z83 and
attached a detailed CV with at least three (3) contactable references. Failure
to complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the
applicant. No late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. By
submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013
(Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide to the DFFE
to being processed by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet
committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with
the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/19 : NON-SPATIAL INFORMATION SPECIALIST REF NO: FOM70/2026
Re-Advertisement and those who have previously applied, need to reapply
SALARY : R605 742 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Information Technology or relevant
qualification within the related field as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of
20
three (3) years' experience in the in application and systems development or
related experience. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
Proficiency in Spatial Data Analysis Techniques. Knowledge of IT Systems
support services, ICT management legislative frameworks, and the Systems
Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Knowledge of Data visualisation tools, office
automation and database management. Knowledge of project management.
Sound knowledge of business process analysis, and business requirements
analysis. Problem-solving and analytical methodologies. Excellent
organizational and planning skills. Communication abilities with strong verbal
and writing skills. Ability to gather, analyse, and interpret information effectively.
Ability to develop, implement, and apply policies and procedures. Capable of
working independently as well as collaboratively within a team.
DUTIES : Design, develop, and maintain technical specifications for business
applications. Conduct business requirements analysis and translate
requirements into functional and technical specifications. Draft, review, and
finalize system integration requirements and application functionality. Develop,
maintain, and enhance application system interfaces to ensure seamless
integration between systems. Perform preventative maintenance on existing
applications to improve system stability and prevent future issues. Initiate,
develop, and maintain automated statistical reporting solutions to support
business decision-making. Provide innovative IT solutions to address business
challenges and improve operational efficiency. Monitor and evaluate the
implementation of change requests to ensure successful deployment and
compliance with business requirements. Monitor, investigate, and resolve
system faults and fault reports to maintain system availability and performance.
Administer user access, security permissions, and system controls in
accordance with organizational security policies. Assess system strengths,
weaknesses, risks, and integration capabilities to identify opportunities for
continuous improvement. Evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of
custom-developed solutions versus commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) products
and provide recommendations. Design and implement database strategies,
monitor database health, optimize performance, and plan for future capacity
and scalability requirements. Collaborate with GIS team to integrate spatial and
non-spatial data. Manage database migrations, upgrades, and data integrity
throughout the migration process. Develop, test, and maintain database
backup and disaster recovery plans to ensure business continuity. Provide staff
supervision, technical guidance, and support while promoting knowledge
sharing and adherence to best practices.
ENQUIRIES : Dr Andile Churchill Mkwalo at 067 422 3702
APPLICATIONS : FOM70-2026@dffe.gov.za
Pretoria: Must be submitted to the Director-General, Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment, Private Bag X447, Pretoria, 0001 or hand-
delivered to: Environment House, Erf 1563 Arcadia Extension 6, Cnr
Soutpansberg and Steve Biko Road, Arcadia, Pretoria. or can be emailed to
the respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject
email.
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications, identity document and driver’s license on or
before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualification Authority (SAQA).
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to
appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated groups in terms
of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply. Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-
listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine their suitability for employment, including but not limited to: Criminal
21
records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment
(reference checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will
be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for
SMS that was introduced on 1 April 2015, a requirement for all applicants for
SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at the NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be
obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must
provide proof of successful completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of performance agreement and
employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/20 : ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER SPECIALISED PRODUCTION: LICENSING
REF NO: CWM03/2026
SALARY : R518 769 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate Honours degree (NQF8) in Natural/Environmental Sciences or
relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA coupled with a minimum of three
(3) years’ experience in the relevant field. Knowledge of environmental policies,
legislation and regulation development, including waste and pollution policies.
Understanding of licensing processes and National Waste Management
Strategy. Understanding of registration processes in terms National Norms and
Standards for Waste. Ability to apply environmental policies. Understanding of
EIA regulations and Waste Information Regulations. Ability to work
independently and in a team. Ability to lead multidisciplinary team. Good
interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work under extreme pressure. Conflict
management and resolution. Ability to organize and plan under pressure.
Ability to collect and interpret information and reports.
DUTIES : Process/ manage waste management licences and associated applications;
registrations and exclusion authorisation. Ensure that licences and associated
decisions, exclusion authorisations and registrations are loaded on the EDMS,
SAWIC and any platform made available. Report on performance of
directorate. Screening of licence applications, registration request in terms of
National Norms and Standards and exclusions applications. Maintain and
Keep record of all registration request, exclusions and licence application and
associated reports. Maintain and keep all the records of decisions and
correspondence that relate to licensing system. To support directorate in the
implementation of Standard Operating Procedure for managing applications.
Manage schedule for reviews, site visits, Monitoring Committee Meeting;
preapplication meeting, PAIA request and 24G Fine Committee meetings.
Develop and implement tracking tool for waste applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P Matjelele Tel No: (012) 399 9852
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.environment.gov.za/
22
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the above link.
Applicant must ensure that they complete all sections on the online Z83 and
attached a detailed CV with at least three (3) contactable references. Failure
to complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the
applicant. No late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry,
Fisheries and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer. Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the
underrepresented designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan.
Persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be
limited to successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected
to screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. By
submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013
(Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide to the DFFE
to being processed by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet
committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with
the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/21 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR3): FISHERIES POLICY AND
RIGHTS ADMINISTRATION REF NO FIM21/2026 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 563 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : Cape Town (Foretrust Building)
REQUIREMENTS : LLB Degree or relevant equivalent qualification as recognized by SAQA. Two
(2) years appropriate post qualification legal experience. Knowledge of the
Marine Living Resources Act, Promotion of Access to Information Act,
Protection of Personal Information Act, Promotion of Administrative Justice Act,
Administrative Law and Constitution and constitutional law. Knowledge and
experience in drafting legal documents. Applicant must have knowledge of
laws of contract and delict, principles of interpretation of statutes. Skills in
dispute resolution, case flow management and innovative and analytical
thinking.
DUTIES : Process transfer of Fishing Rights or Rights applications in terms of section 21
of the MLRA. Receive, examine and validate applications for the transfer of
fishing rights. Conduct legal research to gather relevant information and case
laws. Draft reports as provided for in terms of Regulation 5(3) of the
23
Regulations promulgated under the Marine Living Resources Act, 1998 (Act
No. 18 of 1998). Draft requests for legal opinions and liaise with Legal Services.
Provide legal guidance to stakeholders on the fisheries legal framework and
respond to enquiries. Provide legal advice and legal administrative support to
review and develop Fisheries Policies. Conduct legal research and analysis to
inform the review and the drafting of fisheries policies. Provide legal guidance
in drafting of fisheries policies for public comments and participate in
stakeholders’ consultation processes. Provide legal guidance during the
drafting of Socio-Economic Impact Analysis (SEIAS). Provide legal guidance
in consideration of comments and responses on the draft fisheries policies and
compile final fisheries policies for approval. Provide legal coordination and
legal administrative support on Fishing Rights Allocation process. Provide legal
guidance during the review and drafting of application forms for fishing rights
in accordance with applicable legislation and legal principles. Provide legal
support on performance of reviews of fisheries post the allocation of fishing
rights. Provide legal guidance in drafting briefing notes and presentations for
Minister, Portfolio Committee and Senior Management. Provide legal
administrative support to Consultative Advisory Forum (CAF) and/or Fisheries
Transformation Council (FTC). Render legal support to implement
recommendations of the CAF and/or FTC.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mdledle at (066) 471 1473 / e-Mail: MMdledle@dffe.gov.za
APPLICATIONS : FIM21-2026@dffe.gov.za
Cape Town, North West (Forestry), Eastern Cape, Free State,
Mpumalanga And Limpopo: Must be submitted to the Director-General,
Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, The Director:
Integrated Human Resource Management, Private Bag X4390, Cape Town,
8000 or hand-deliver to 63 Strand Street, Cape Town or can be emailed to the
respective email address quoting the reference number on the subject email.
NOTE : Application must be submitted on a New signed Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department, accompanied by a recent detailed Curriculum Vitae
only, to be considered. All attachments for online application must include an
application form Z83 and CV only, in PDF and as one (1) document or
attachment, indicate the correct job title and the reference number of the post
on the subject line of your email. Use the correct email address associated with
the post. JPEG (picture/snapshot) application will not be accepted. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications, identity document and driver’s license on or
before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Preference may be given to
appointable applicants from the underrepresented designated groups in terms
of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply. Correspondence will be limited to successful candidates only. Short-
listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine their suitability for employment, including but not limited to: Criminal
records; Citizenship status; Credit worthiness; Previous employment
(reference checks); and Qualification verification. Short-listed candidates will
be expected to avail themselves at the Department’s convenience. Entry level
requirements for SMS posts: In terms of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity
Development, Mandatory Training Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for
SMS that was introduced on 1 April 2015, a requirement for all applicants for
SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government (NSG) prior to appointment. The course is available at the NSG
under the name Certificate for entry into SMS and the full details can be
obtained by following the below link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-
course/sms-pre-entryprogramme. Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must
provide proof of successful completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be
24
subjected to a security clearance, the signing of a performance agreement and
an employment contract. The Department reserves the right not to make an
appointment. If you have not been contacted within three 3 months after the
closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. By submitting the employment application form, you agree and
consent in terms of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act
(POPIA), 2013 (Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide
to the DFFE to being processed by the department and its employees, agents,
Cabinet committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in
accordance with the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/22 : RECORDS CLERK: FACILITIES & ADMINISTRATION SERVICES (X3
POSTS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Pretoria Ref No: CMS22/2026
Nelspruit Ref No: CMS23/2026
Makhado Ref No: CMS24/2026
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Certificate. Post-matric qualification and experience in records clerk
will be an added advantage. Knowledge of document management, Registry
processes, Filing administration and Computer packages. Ability to work
individually and in a team. Good interpersonal relations skills. Ability to work
with difficult persons sense of responsibility and loyalty and Ability to work
under pressure.
DUTIES : Provide effective administration of incoming files and opening of files. Close
employee file when an employee is transferred, deceased or resigns. Update
control sheet and put documents numerically. Efficient and timeous
administration of the incoming and outgoing mail. Stamp all mails and face
value forms before distribution. Weigh the mail to determine the pricing using
the post office guideline prices. Record courier items in the register and send
to reception for collection. Administer outgoing files. Register outgoing files in
the recording book and ensure that they are signed by clients. Administration
of disposal and transfer of files. Receive ephemeral documents from branches.
Compile list of archival value files to be transferred to National Archive.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Kubai Tel No: (012) 399 9727
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.environment.gov.za/
NOTE : Interested applicants must submit their applications via the above link.
Applicant must ensure that they complete all sections on the online Z83 and
attached a detailed CV with at least three (3) contactable references. Failure
to complete or disclose all required information will automatically disqualify the
applicant. No late applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be
required to submit certified copies of qualifications, identity document and
driver’s license on or before the day of the interview. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South African
Qualification Authority (SAQA). The National Department of Forestry, Fisheries
and the Environment is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Preference may be given to appointable applicants from the underrepresented
designated groups in terms of the Department’s equity plan. Persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply. Correspondence will be limited to
successful candidates only. Short-listed candidates will be subjected to
screening and security vetting to determine their suitability for employment,
including but not limited to: Criminal records; Citizenship status; Credit
worthiness; Previous employment (reference checks); and Qualification
verification. Short-listed candidates will be expected to avail themselves at the
Department’s convenience. Entry level requirements for SMS posts: In terms
of the Directive on Compulsory Capacity Development, Mandatory Training
Days & Minimum Entry Requirements for SMS that was introduced on 1 April
2015, a requirement for all applicants for SMS posts from 1 April 2020 is a
successful completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government (NSG) prior to appointment.
The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry into
SMS and the full details can be obtained by following the below link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entryprogramme.
Furthermore, Shortlisted candidates must provide proof of successful
completion of the course. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
25
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical
exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a
maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments
to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional
intelligence, and integrity. Persons appointed will be subjected to a security
clearance, the signing of performance agreement and employment contract.
The Department reserves the right not to make an appointment. If you have
not been contacted within three 3 months after the closing date of the
advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. By
submitting the employment application form, you agree and consent in terms
of Section 11(1) of the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), 2013
(Act 4 of 2013), for your personal information which you provide to the DFFE
to being processed by the department and its employees, agents, Cabinet
committees, and subcontractors for recruitment purposes, in accordance with
the POPIA of 2013.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
26
ANNEXURE E
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Tshwane North TVET College)
(West Coast TVET College)
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/23 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: STUDENT REGISTRATION SERVICES REF NO:
TNC/CO/26 – 07/1
Duration: Permanent Appointment
SALARY : R605 742 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : An undergraduate qualification National Diploma (NQF Level 6) in Business
Administration, Public Management/ administration or relevant qualification as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3-5 years in administration department.
Driver’s license: Code B. Experience in the post schooling education and
training (PSET) sector will be an added advantage. Competencies, Knowledge
and Skills: Indicate the appropriate broad and specific knowledge required:
Knowledge of registry duties, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
and operate computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative
framework governing the Public Service. Knowledge of storage and retrieval
procedures in terms of the working environment. Indicate the appropriate skill
and level required: Proven report writing and presentation skills in the public
sector and its legislation framework. Good communication skills and people
Empowerment. Planning and execution. Proven computer literacy, including
advanced MSWord, MS Excel and MS PowerPoint. Proven ability to effectively
manage change. Leadership skill.
DUTIES : Manage the administration of the overall student registration. Develop, review
and monitor the implementation of policies and procedures in relation to
student registration, admission, scheduling and records. Provides workshops
on the implementation of policies and procedures in relation to student
registration, admission, scheduling and records. Manage student registration
and ensure proper procedures are followed. Develop and review registration
documents for accuracy. Manage the database for new graduates and alumni
into the job market. Maintain and update database of students enrolled within
programmes. Ensure that student orientations are conducted into college and
campuses. Ensure that learner’s information is captured on Information
Technology System (ITS). Plan, coordinate, and manage the end-to-end
student registration process for all programmes (NC(V), Report 191/NATED,
Occupational, and Skills programmes). Develop and implement annual
registration schedules, timelines, and procedures. Ensure compliance with
DHET enrolment targets, reporting requirements, and NSFAS regulations.
Oversee online and manual registration platforms and troubleshoot system
issues. Manage student data capturing and verification on the ITS or equivalent
Student Information System (SIS). Student Records and Data Integrity. Ensure
the accuracy, completeness, and security of all student registration data and
records. Maintain and update the Student Information System (SIS) in
compliance with DHET EMIS reporting requirements. Compile and submit
accurate student headcount, FTE, and enrolment reports to DHET, SETA, and
other stakeholders. Manage the archiving and retrieval of student registration
records in compliance with POPIA and institutional records management
policies. Policy Compliance and Quality Assurance. Ensure all registration
activities comply with DHET norms, standards, and relevant legislation (Skills
Development Act, TVET Act, POPIA, etc.). Implement and monitor quality
assurance processes for registration and student records management. Liaise
with QCTO, Umalusi, SETAs, and DHET regarding programme registration and
certification compliance. Conduct regular audits of student files and registration
records to ensure accuracy and compliance. Staff Supervision and
Development. Supervise, coach, and develop registration and records
management staff. Conduct performance assessments and manage staff
performance in line with PMDS/IQMS requirements. Assign duties and manage
workloads within the registration unit. Identify training needs and facilitate
development opportunities for subordinate staff. Reporting and Administration.
Prepare and submit monthly, quarterly, and annual registration reports to
management. Provide registration statistics and data analysis to support
27
strategic planning and decision-making. Manage the registration unit budget
and procurement of required resources. Attend and participate in relevant
committees, management meetings, and planning sessions.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe Tel No: (012) 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to asdregistration@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will not be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, and
qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. The
College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. Preference will be
given to African male, African female, Coloured male, Coloured female, White
male, Indian male and White female as per the EE targets of the College.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/24 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT & QUALITY MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM REF NO: TNC/CO/26 – 07/2
Duration: Permanent Appointment
SALARY : R487 197 per annum, plus benefits
CENTRE : Central Office
REQUIREMENTS : B-Tech Internal Auditing/Degree (NQF Level 7) in Internal Auditing. A post
graduate qualification in internal auditing, forensic auditing or a relevant
postgraduate qualification will be an added advantage. Registered member of
the institute of Internal Auditors South Africa (IIASA). Certified Internal Auditor
or Professional Internal Auditor designations or relevant professional
designations will be an added advantage. Minimum 5 years’ relevant
experience in an internal auditing environment. Minimum 3 years’ relevant
supervisory experience in internal auditing environment. Computer literacy
(MS Office – advanced Excel preferred). Valid driver’s license. Competencies,
Knowledge and Skills: Sound knowledge of internal auditing principles and
practices. Knowledge of the CET Act, Public Audit Act, Public Finance
Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, and public sector governance
frameworks. Understanding of the International Standards for the Professional
Practice of Internal Auditing (IIA Standards) and Global Internal Audit
Standards. Knowledge and understanding of risk management, internal control
frameworks, and corporate governance principles (King IV/V report).
Understanding of public sector policies, including DHET/TVET regulatory and
compliance requirements. Understanding of Quality Management Systems
(ISO 9001:2015). Strong analytical, investigative, and problem-solving skills.
Excellent report writing, presentation, and communication skills (written and
verbal). Ability to evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls.
Strong planning, coordination, and organisational skills. Ability to interpret
legislation, policies, and procedures and apply them during audits. Proficiency
in compiling audit working papers and maintaining quality audit files. High
attention to detail, accuracy, and compliance with auditing standards. Ability to
work independently and under pressure while meeting strict audit timelines.
Professionalism, accountability, and ethical conduct. Sound judgement and
objectivity. Ability to maintain confidentiality and exercise discretion.
28
DUTIES : Prepare audit notification letters in line with the approved Annual Audit Plan.
Conduct preliminary surveys to gain an understanding of systems, processes,
and controls. Prepare Audit Planning Memoranda (APMs). Perform risk
assessments and develop risk-based audit programmes. Identity control
weaknesses and areas of improvement. Prepare and maintain quality audit
files in compliance with Global Internal Audit Standards. Conduct audits in
accordance with approved audit programmes and methodologies. Evaluate the
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls. Compliance and maintenance
of the ISO 9001 standards. Assess safeguarding of assets against fraud,
irregularities, and losses. Review compliance with the CET Act, PFMA,
Treasury Regulations, and Institutional policies. Engage auditees during
fieldwork and discuss preliminary findings. Perform follow-up audits on
previously reported findings and recommendations. Draft clear, accurate, and
evidence-based audit reports. Identity root causes and provide practical, value-
adding recommendations. Conduct exit meetings and prepare minutes. Submit
audit reports within agreed timelines. Support reporting to Executive
Management and the Audit and Risk and Management Committee. Maintain
effective professional relationships with internal stakeholders. Provide advisory
input on governance, risk management, and internal control matters, where
required. Guide and support management in addressing audit findings and
management action plan.
ENQUIRIES : Should you have enquiries or experience any problem submitting your
application contact Ms RN Selepe Tel No: (012) 401 1955 / Ms JM Nyalunga
Tel No: (012) 401 1940
APPLICATIONS : Email to asdinternalaudit@tnc.edu.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the New Z83 which must be fully completed,
obtainable from any Public Service Department and must be accompanied by
a comprehensive Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates will be required
to submit certified copies of qualifications including academic records, driver’s
license, and identity document. Please take note that communication in relation
to the process will be limited to the short-listed candidates. If you have not
received any correspondence within three (3) months after the closing date,
please consider your application unsuccessful. Note: Please quote the relevant
reference number of the post you are applying for. Applications received after
the closing date will not be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected
to a vetting process: criminal record checks, citizenship, credit record checks,
and qualifications. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall
undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
The College/DHET reserves the right not to make appointments. Preference
will be given to African male, African female, Coloured male, Coloured female,
White male, Indian male and White female as per the EE targets of the College.
People with disability are encouraged to apply. All costs incurred due to your
application and interviews will be at your own expense. Tshwane North TVET
College would like to invite suitably qualified, innovative, result-orientated and
self–driven candidates to apply for their vacant positions.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/25 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT REF NO: WCTVET 1/2/0006
Contract: Permanent
Re-advertised. All candidates that have previously applied are encouraged to
re- apply
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09), plus benefits as applicable in the Public
Service
CENTRE : Central Office; Malmesbury
REQUIREMENTS : Matric /Grade 12 plus a recognised 3- years’ National Diploma in Human
Resources Management or a 4 - years’ Degree. A minimum of 5 years in
Human Resource Management environment of which three (03) years should
be management experience. A Post Degree qualification will be an added
advantage. PERSAL Certificates. Computer literacy. Knowledge of MS
Software applications such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint & Outlook. Current and
previous work experience endorsed by Human Resource (Not certificate of
service). Valid Driver’s license. Knowledge of Public Services legislations and
policies related to Human Resource Management. Knowledge and
29
understanding of the TVET/ CET Administration. Knowledge and
understanding of the Higher Education sector. Knowledge of PERSAL and Job
Evaluation. In-depth knowledge of BCEA, LRA, EEA, COIDA, OHSA,
employee wellness and benefits. Excellent understanding of HR Risk and
Compliance Knowledge of CCMA/Labour Court/Bargaining processes.
DUTIES : Oversee Human Resource Management and Administration services - Render
conditions of services (Leave, Housing, Medical, Injury on duty, Long service
recognition, overtime, relocation, pensions, transfers, allowances etc.);
Oversee the recruitment and selection processes as per departmental
delegation (advert, shortlisting, interviews, security vetting, competency test,
reference check, verification of qualifications) are coordinated within the
stipulated timelines); Management of HR Personnel records. Oversee Human
Resource Development services - Render Bursaries administration; Render
Internship and Work Integrated Learning (WIL); Conduct Induction; Coordinate
and facilitate the Training interventions. Develop and implement Workplace
Skills Plan (WSP); Administration of Performance Management and
Development Systems (PMDS) and Integrated Quality Management System
(IQMS). Coordinate and facilitate Organizational Development, services -
Coordinate the design, review and implementation of the college organizational
structure; Facilitate the development of Job Descriptions; Coordinate the Job
Evaluation of posts/jobs and submit to Head Office; Conduct work-study and
business process re-engineering; Facilitate change management and
organizational transformation services. Coordinate and facilitate Human
Resource Planning (HRP) and Employment Equity (EE) services - Coordinate,
develop, review, implement and monitor the college HR plan; Submit college
HR plan to Regional and Head Office for integration of the departmental plan;
Coordinate, develop, review, implement and monitor the college EE plan;
Submit college EE plan to Regional and Head Office for integration of the
departmental plan; Employment Equity (EE) data for submission to Regional
and Head Office; Ensure the implementation of HR and EE Plan. Provide
Employee Health and Wellness (EHW) services - Implement wellness
programmes and service for the college; Coordinate and manage HIV, AIDS,
STI and TB services; Coordinate and manage health productivity programmes;
Implement health and safety working environment programmes; Promotion of
sport activities to encourage physical fitness and healthy lifestyle. Develop and
implement Human Resource policies and manuals. Management of all Human,
Financial, and other resources of the unit. Advanced skill: Administrative;
Planning and organizing; Financial management; Report writing,
Communication and interpersonal; Problem solving; Computer literacy;
Analytical; Client oriented; Project management; Team leadership; People
management. Labour Relations Management - Provide advisory services on
all employee relations policies, procedures, strategies, agreements, and
legislation. Conduct daily employee relations operations specifically in the
areas of disciplinary hearing, grievances, absenteeism, performance
improvement and collective bargaining; Partner with management in driving
fair labour relations within the business Represent the company in dispute
resolution process including mediation, arbitration and negotiation; Partner
with management in driving fair labour relations within the business Values/
attributes - Client service focus; Integrity; Committed; Proactive and loyal.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A. Arosi Tel No: (022) 482 1143
APPLICATIONS : Please log on to www.westcoastcollege.co.za register and apply online.
NOTE : Please click on the vacancies tab, fully complete the online Z83 application
form, and attach a recently updated detailed CV with (years of experience, the
start and the end date, the duties and three contactable references with email
addresses for the previous and current employers). Failure to sign, date and
not fully complete the Z83 form will result in your application not being
considered. Applicants must submit Z83 and CV only, all other documents /
proof will be submitted by shortlisted candidates. A separate application must
be submitted for each post for which you are applying. Late applications
(received after the closing date and time) will not be considered. Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of qualification
and other relevant documents to College Human Resources Management
Administration Unit on or before the day of the interview. Should you be in
possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an evaluation
certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). The
employer is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The employment
decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department.
30
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender, and disability)
in the Department through the filling of the post(s) with a candidate whose
appointment will promote representatively in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. The Employer reserves the right not
to make an appointment, to withdraw, and / or amend the adverts for the post(s)
and retains the right not to fill the posts as determined by the Director - General
or the delegated authority. Where applicable, candidates will be subjected to a
skills test. Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates. All short-
listed candidates will be subjected to a qualifications and citizen verification;
criminal record and financial/asset record checks. Applicants who have not
been invited for an interview within 60 days of the closing date should consider
their application unsuccessful. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS,
shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to
determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic
requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
31
ANNEXURE F
DEPARTMENT OF HOME AFFAIRS
The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) seeks to hire patriotic, professional, passionate and talented
individuals to form part of a new leadership team, equipped with the right skills to facilitate the
transformation of Home Affairs into a digital-first, world-class organisation. If you are committed to
delivering on the Medium-Term Development Plan’s priorities through digital transformation, ascribe to
the Department’s shared value set, have what it takes to deliver on the needs of DHA Clients with the
highest levels of dignity, integrity and innovation, and your credentials meet the requirements of any of
the following positions, kindly respond before the closing date. The DHA is a merit-based, equal
opportunity and affirmative action employer. In line with its commitment to promoting representivity, in
the filling of entry-level positions preference may be given to locally based candidates on grounds of
affordability as well as to (unemployed) youth and the DHA’s interns and learners who have successfully
completed their respective skills development programmes. In the filling of all posts, preference may be
afforded to persons with disabilities, and in respect of SMS-level posts, to women. Persons falling in
these categories and who meet the post requirements are preferred.
APPLICATIONS : Applications compliant with the “Directions to Applicants” above, must be
submitted online at https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za or
raasarecruitment@dha.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : Applications: Applications must be submitted online at
https://erecruitment.dha.gov.za sent to the correct address specified at the
bottom of the posts, on or before the closing date, accompanied by a fully
completed Application for Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1
January 2021), obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za, citing the correct post number
and job title, and a comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date dd/mm/yy),
job title, duties performed and exit reason for each employment period to be
considered, as well as the details of at least two contactable employment
references (as recent as possible), regardless of online or manual submission.
Where a valid Driver's License and a Professional Driving Permit (PDP) is a
requirement, this must be indicated on the CV. All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Shortlisted candidates will also be required to submit a
copy of their ID document, a valid driver’s license (if specified as a job
requirement), relevant educational qualifications / RPL certificates / Academic
Transcripts of completed qualifications, and Acting letters as directed.
Furthermore, applicants who possess (a) foreign qualification(s) are required
to submit the evaluated results of such qualifications, as received from the
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA); for SMS posts, they will be
subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity, will be subjected to an
interview, various relevant tests and assessments, and employment suitability
checks (credit, criminal, citizenship, qualifications, and employment references
including verification of exit reasons, and conducting business with State).
Once appointed, serving of a prescribed probation period, and obtaining of a
security clearance appropriate to the post, will be required. Correspondence
between the Department and candidates will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. The DHA complies with the Protection of Personal Information
Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013). Applicants’ personal information will be used for
recruitment purposes, retained where required for audit, and safeguarded
against unauthorised disclosure, except where legally required. Submission of
an application constitutes consent to such processing.
32
OTHER POST
POST 28/26 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER (MR1-MR5) REF NO: HRMC 56/26/1
Directorate: Refugee Appeals Authority of South Africa (RAASA)
SALARY : R262 968 - R1 155 777 per annum (MR1-MR5), (A basic salary package).
Salary will be in accordance with the OSD determination for Legally Qualified
Personnel.
CENTRE : Head Office: Tshwane
REQUIREMENTS : An LLB degree or equivalent 4 (four) year legal qualification at NQF level 7
(seven) as recognized by SAQA. MR1: No previous legal experience is
required. MR 2: 1 (one) years’ relevant post-qualification legal experience in a
drafting and litigation environment. MR 3: 2 (two) years’ relevant post-
qualification legal experience in a litigation environment. MR 4: 4 (four) years’
appropriate post qualification legal experience in a litigation environment. MR
5: 6 (six) years’ relevant post-qualification legal experience in a litigation
environment. Admission as an Attorney or Advocate is required for MR 2-5. A
valid Driver's License. Knowledge of Workflow planning and capacity planning.
Knowledge of all Civic Services Regulations. Basic knowledge of the
Immigration Act and Refugee Act. Knowledge of the Public Service Regulatory
Framework. Extensive knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA) and Treasury regulations. Knowledge of the South African
Constitution. Understanding of departmental legislation and Human Resources
legislation and prescripts. Knowledge of the South African Constitution
Knowledge of the Public Service Regulations Act. Knowledge of occupation
Health and Safety Act. Required skills and competencies: Strategic capability
and leadership. Service delivery innovation, client orientation and customer
focus. People management and empowerment. Financial Management and
Administration. Accountability. Program and project management. Budget
Administration. Financial Risk Management. Legal writing, drafting of Legal
documents skills. Process analysis and improvement. Attention to details.
Ability to install appropriate processes and systems, as well as enabling
technology, to support the Department in efficiently and effectively managing
the required work. Support with digital transformation. Excellent verbal and
written communication, as well as presentation skills. Problem-solving and
analysis. Conflict management and resolution. Interpersonal skills. Computers
and Networks. Engineering and technology. Technology design (Networks).
Influencing, networking, conflict management and negotiation skills. Decision
making and initiating action. Planning, organising and time management.
Policy development, coaching and facilitating. Business report writing.
Computer literacy. Patriotism, Honesty and Integrity.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for, amongst others, the following
specific tasks: Facilitate the daily operation of the Legal unit of Refugee
Appeals Authority. Draft new and amend existing legislation administered by
the Refugee Appeals Authority. Provide verbal and written legal opinions
relating to all pieces of legislation administered by the Refugee Appeal
Authority and any other relevant Legislations. Conduct well-structured
research and substantiated legal advice and legal opinions on daily basis
verbally and in writing. Provide legal advice and prepare legal documents for
the unit. Facilitate input in legislation and provide advice to Refugee Reception
Offices. Liaise with other state departments and institutions regarding
legislatives matters. Attend to litigation matters against the Authority and liaise
with the Department’s legal service directorate on such matters. Participate in
seeing Bills through the legislative drafting and Parliamentary process, and the
drafting of legal documents on behalf of the Refugee Appeals Authority.
Participate in scrutinizing and drafting international agreements and
Memoranda of Understanding. Attend to requests in terms of Promotion of
Access to Information Act, 2000 (Act No. 2 of 2000). Ensure the implementation
of effective risk and compliance management. Implementation of policies,
procedures, directives, acts and regulations. Ability to instill appropriate
processes and systems, as well as enabling technology, to support the
Department in efficiently and effectively managing the required work. Support
digital transformation.
ENQUIRIES : Head Office: Ms B Kabinde Tel No: (012) 406 4239
33
ANNEXURE G
DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION
The Department of International Relations and Cooperation is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer.
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your applications to the e-mail address indicated below each
post and quote the post name in the subject line of the e-mail address to
receive an acknowledgement; Hand-delivered applications can be submitted
to the OR Tambo Building, 460 Soutpansberg Road, Pretoria.
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new form Z83 (effective from 1 January
2021) duly completed and hand signed) obtainable from any Public Service
department or on the DIRCO website – www.dirco.gov.za Received
applications using incorrect Z83 for employment will not be considered. It is the
applicant’s responsibility to have foreign qualifications evaluated by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates will be
subjected to personnel suitability checks and verification of qualifications.
DIRCO reserves the right not to make appointments. We thank all the
applicants for their interest. Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted
candidates only. If you have not been contacted within four (4) months after
closing date of this advertisement, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The Departmental Employment Equity targets will be taken into
consideration during the selection process All shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/27 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES (RECRUITMENT &
SELECTION) REF NO: 0731/02 (X1 POST)
Branch: Corporate Management
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11). This all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an NQF level 6 Diploma/ Degree in Human
Resources Management/ Public Administration/ Public Management or related
field as recognized by SAQA. At least 3-5 years’ relevant experience in a junior
management level in a Human Resources Management environment.
PERSAL administration certificate will be an added advantage Competencies:
Knowledge and understanding of relevant public service legislations
Knowledge and understanding of HR prescripts and guidelines Knowledge and
understanding of PFMA Policy analysis and development Decision making,
problem solving and analytical skills People management and empowerment
Good interpersonal relations Planning and organising Client orientation and
customer focus Sense of responsibility Communication skills (written, verbal
and computer literacy) Ability to work under pressure Ability to work as a team
and independently Diplomacy.
DUTIES : Development, review and implementation of the Recruitment and Selection
Policy, Standard Operating Procedures and Internal Controls. Implement
Recruitment and Selection operations Stakeholder Management, including
service providers Ensure adherence to recruitment systems, reporting and
compliance matters. Procurement management Manage the Sub-Directorate
and provide direction and technical support Coaching and development of
personnel
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Beshe, Tel: (012) 351 1327/ Ms W Matlala Tel No: (012) 351 0514/ Ms N
Moyakhe Tel No: (012)351 1210
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to ddr&s26@dirco.gov.za
34
POST 28/28 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
0731/01 (X1 POST)
Branch: Office of the Chief Operations Officer
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11). This all-inclusive remuneration package
consists of a basic salary, the State’s contribution to the Government
Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be structured in terms
of the applicable rules.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an undergraduate NQF Level 6 Diploma/
Degree in Management Services, Operations Management, Industrial
Psychology/ related field At least 3-5 years’ junior managerial experience in
Organisational Development and Job evaluation Certificate in Job Evaluation
will be an added advantage Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of
legislative framework governing Public Service such as the constitution of the
republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, PFMA,
etc Knowledge of Job Evaluation process and prescripts Knowledge and
development of job descriptions Knowledge and understanding of guides,
principles and directives in the Organisational Development field Knowledge
of National Development Plan and priorities of the Department Knowledge of
the application of Organisational Functionality Assessment (OFA) Tools.
Knowledge of project management, approaches, tools and phases of the
project lifecycle Planning and organising, Knowledge and application of
Strategic planning, Client orientation and customer focus; Problem solving and
analytical skills, Investigation skills, Interviewing skills; Communication skills
(written, verbal and computer literacy); Policy analysis and development,
Facilitation skills, Report writing skills, Ability to work under pressure Ability to
work in a team independently, Time management, People management and
empowerment; Honesty and integrity, Political and cultural sensitivity and
Diplomacy.
DUTIES : Manage the design and alignment of Organisational structure to the
departmental strategy and priorities, Manage and provide job evaluation
support services, Manage and conduct Organisational Functionality
Assessment (OFA) in order to ensure organisational effectiveness and
efficiency. Provide business process engineering and management support
services, Manage the Sub-Directorate and provide technical support Coaching
and People management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012) 351 1327/ Ms W Matlala Tel No: (012) 351 0514/ Ms
N Moyakhe Tel No: (012) 351 1210
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to ddod26@dirco.gov.za
POST 28/29 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT REF NO:
0731/04 (X1 POST)
Branch: Office of the Chief Operations Officer
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an undergraduate NQF Level 6 Diploma /
Degree in Management Services/Operations Management / Industrial
Psychology or related. At least 3 years’ relevant experience at supervisory level
in Organisational Development Certificate in Job Evaluation will be an added
advantage. Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of legislative
framework governing Public Service such as the constitution of the republic of
South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service regulations and PFMA,
Knowledge of Job Evaluation processes. Knowledge and development of job
descriptions. Knowledge of guides, principles and directives in the
Organisational Development field. Knowledge of strategic planning application.
Knowledge of the National Development Plan and the priorities of the
Department. Knowledge of project management approaches, tools and phases
of the project lifecycle. Knowledge of the application of Organisational
Functionality Assessment (OFA) Tools. Diplomacy, Networking,
Communication (written, verbal and liaison), Problem solving, Computer
literacy, Language proficiency, Client orientation and customer focus, People
management, Planning and organising, Time management, Policy analysis
and development, Facilitation skills, Report writing skills, Investigation and
Interviewing skills. Adaptability, Insight, Conceptualisation, Analytical thinking,
Actualisation, Sense of urgency, Initiative, Honesty and Integrity, Ability to work
35
in a team and independently, Ability to work under pressure, Political and
cultural sensitivity, Ability to network, Willingness to travel and Assertiveness.
DUTIES : Review and develop departmental organisational structure and provide
organisational design services Provide business process re-engineering and
management support services. Provide job evaluation services Conduct
Organisational Functionality Assessment (OFA) in order to ensure
organisational effectiveness and efficiency Coaching and People
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Beshe Tel No: (012)351 1327/ Ms W Matlala Tel No: (012) 351 0514/ Ms
N Moyakhe Tel No: (012) 351 1210
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to asdod26@dirco.gov.za
POST 28/30 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: VETTING FIELDWORK OFFICER REF NO:
0731/08 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Corporate Management
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants must be in possession of an undergraduate NQF Level 6 Diploma/
Degree in Security Management, Social Sciences/ related fields. Successful
completion of Vetting Course/ Training offered by SSA/ SANDF/ SAPS, a valid
Top Secret Security Clearance. A valid driver’s license. At least 3 -5 years’
experience in conducting Top Secret/ Secret vetting investigations.
Competencies: Knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service, such as the Constitution of the Republic of South
Africa, the Public Service Act, the Public Service regulations, the PFMA, etc.
Knowledge and understanding of Domestic and Foreign Policy Knowledge and
understanding of Minimum Information Security Standards (MISS) Knowledge
and understanding of the Vetting Policy Guidelines and Procedures Knowledge
and understanding of the Vetting Prescripts Planning and organizing Client
orientation and customer focus, Good interpersonal relations Problem solving
and analytical skills Communication skills (written, verbal and computer
literacy) Investigation skills, Interviewing skills, and ability to draft and prepare
quality vetting reports. Ability to work under pressure, Ability to work in a team
and independently, Ability to put plans into action/actualisation. Sense of
urgency, Honesty and Integrity. Political and cultural sensitivity, willingness to
travel, and diplomacy extensively.
DUTIES : Conduct vetting fieldwork investigations Provide inputs for the development
and implementation of policies, guidelines, norms and standards in vetting
investigations Provide effective communication channels and systems
between the Department and the SSA and other related agencies Administer
files and partake in task teams dealing with matters related to vetting projects/
processes.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Beshe, Tel No: (012)351 1327/ Ms W Matlala Tel No: (012) 351 0514/ Ms
N Moyakhe Tel No: (012) 351 1210
APPLICATIONS : Please e-mail your application to vfo26@dirco.gov.za
36
ANNEXURE H
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : Applicants are invited to submit applications, quoting the relevant reference
number to the link and or address indicated in each specific advertisement.
Applications should be accompanied by a fully completed and signed
Application for Employment Form (New Z83, effective from 1 January 2021,
obtainable at www.dpsa.gov.za), citing the correct post number and job title; a
comprehensive CV (citing the start and end date (dd/mm/yy), job title, detailed
duties performed and exit reason for each employment period to be
considered, as well as the details of three contactable employment references
and copies of educational qualifications. Applicants who possess foreign
qualification(s), are furthermore required to submit the evaluated results of
such qualifications as received from the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-
entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. These assessments are
aimed at assessing candidate’s professional and technical competency against
the job requirements and duties, general job fit, integrity and digital literacy).
Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3)
candidates will undergo psychometric assessment to assess cognitive
capabilities, behavioural, emotional intelligence and integrity. All suitable
candidates will be subjected to mandatory pre-employment screening/
suitability checks/ verification (credit, criminal, citizenship, qualifications,
employment pending disciplinary action and professional registration. Suitable
candidates for Senior Management Service positions will also be required to
successfully complete the online Nyukela Pre-entry Certificate to Senior
Management Services course, which can be accessed via:
http://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/.
Candidates wishing to be considered for appointment, are encouraged to enroll
for the course as soon as possible. Due to high volumes anticipated,
communication will be limited to shortlisted candidates. The Department
reserves the right not to make an appointment. The Department of Justice and
Constitutional Development (DOJ&CD) seeks to appoint exceptional, ethical
and visionary leaders to join its executive leadership team in advancing
constitutional democracy. Applications received after the closing date will not
be considered. The Department is committed to providing equal opportunities
and affirmative action employment. It is our intention to promote
representativity in terms of (race, gender, and disability).
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/31 : DIRECTOR: LEGISLATIVE IMPLEMENTATION REF NO: 1/08/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 – R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 legal qualification as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of five
(5) years’ experience at a middle/senior managerial level in a legislation
development environment. Admittance as an Advocate or Attorney. Extensive
experience in legislative drafting and development. In-depth knowledge and
understanding of the Constitution and the Criminal Justice System. Knowledge
of Socio-Economic Impact Assessments. Knowledge of Public Service
Legislative and Governance Framework. Sound knowledge of government
priorities. Knowledge Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Treasury Regulations. Skills and Competencies:
Interpretation of statues. Strategic capability and leadership; Programme and
project management; Financial management; Change management. Service
Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem solving and analysis; People management
and empowerment; Client orientation and customer focus; Communication
skills; Honesty and integrity; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of primary legislation and secondary legislation.
Provide oversight in conducting and the submission of socio-economic impact
assessments for legislation. Co-ordinate the review of legislation to achieve
37
better social, environment and economic outcomes. Develop and implement
legislative programme and plans and monitor implementation. Provide
strategic management of human. financial and physical resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. M. Kganyago Tel No: (012) 315 1884
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 28/32 : DIRECTOR: RISK AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2/08/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 – R1 551 807 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive remuneration
package)
CENTRE : National Office, Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Risk Management or related field as recognised
by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years’ experience at a middle/senior
managerial within a risk management environment. Affiliation to a recognised
professional body, e.g. IRMSA. In-depth knowledge of Enterprise-wide Risk
Management. Knowledge of Public Sector Risk Management Framework.
Knowledge of Governance, Compliance and Internal Control Framework.
Knowledge of Protected Disclosure framework. Knowledge of the Public
Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations. Knowledge of the Public
Service Act, the Public Service Regulations and the Public Service Code of
Conduct. Skills and Competencies: Policy Development and monitoring.
Strategic capability and leadership; Programme and project management;
Financial management; Change management; Knowledge management;
Service Delivery Innovation (SDI); Problem solving and analysis; People
management and empowerment; Client orientation and customer focus;
Communication skills; Honesty and integrity; Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide risk and compliance management services; Manage the development
and implementation of enterprise-wide risk management guidelines and
policies; Monitor organizational performance on identified risk and report
thereof; Manage, identifying and minimize departmental risks; Manage the
administration of financial disclosure and maintenance of gift register.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. A Van Ross Tel No: (012) 315 1094
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/33 : SENIOR STATE LAW ADVISOR: RULES BOARD (LP 9) REF NO: 3/08/2026
SALARY : R1 242 915 - R1 934 208 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD requirements.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 legal qualification/ LLB Degree as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of eight (8) years appropriate post qualification litigation/ advisory
experience. Admittance as an Attorney or Advocate. Extensive knowledge and
understanding of the Constitution Law, Administrative Law and the Criminal
Justice System. Knowledge of Public Service Legislative and Governance
Framework. Knowledge of Court rules and Court procedures. A valid driver’s
license. Knowledge, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management, Treasury. Skills and Competencies: Legal research and
drafting; Dispute resolution; Analytical thinking; Communication skills (written
and verbal); Presentation and facilitation skills; Financial management skills;
Computer literacy; Strategic planning capabilities and leadership skills; Ability
to work as a team, individually and under pressure.
DUTIES : Facilitate legal research including comparative legal research on court rules.
Draft rules of court, memorandum and opinions, and facilitate consultation of
stakeholders. Draft rules of courts, court procedures and submit to rules board
and specialist committees. Conduct regular review of existing rules of courts,
facilitate amendments and repeal outdated rules. Facilitate approval of
approved amendments and new rules. Facilitate mentoring and coaching of
38
juniors on legal research and provide information and or case law relevant to
court rules.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mokoena Tel No: (012) 774 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 28/34 : SENIOR STATE LAW ADVISOR: OFFICE OF THE STATE LAW ADVISER
(LP 9) (X7 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 242 915 - R1 934 208 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD requirements.
CENTRE : Pretoria Ref No: 7/08/2026 (X5 Posts)
Cape Town Ref No: 8/08/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 legal qualification/ LLB as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of
eight (8) years appropriate post qualification litigation/ advisory experience.
Admittance as an Attorney or Advocate. Extensive knowledge and
understanding of the Constitution Law, Administrative Law and the Criminal
Justice System. Knowledge of Public Service Legislative and Governance
Framework. Knowledge and experience in drafting bills and legislation
development. Knowledge, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Finance Management, Treasury. A valid driver`s license. Skills and
Competencies: Legal research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Analytical
thinking; Communication skills (written and verbal); Presentation and
facilitation skills; Financial management skills; Computer literacy; Strategic
planning capabilities and leadership skills; Ability to work as a team, individually
and under pressure.
DUTIES : Facilitate legal research, including comparative legal research on legislative
development. Manage the certification and drafting of bills. Scrutinise and
provide legal advice on primary, secondary and other subordinate legislation.
Facilitate capacity building and mentorship for client Departments. Facilitate
legislation translation services. Facilitate and manage legislative processes.
Facilitate mentoring and coaching of juniors on legal research and provide
information and or case law relevant to legislation and bill drafting.
ENQUIRIES : Mr C Zana Tel No: (012) 357 8185
Ms M Kganyago Tel No: (012) 315 1884
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
NOTE : A separate application must be submitted for each position quoting the relevant
reference number.
POST 28/35 : STATE LAW ADVISOR: RULES BOARD (LP7-LP8) REF NO: 4/08/2026
SALARY : R970 221 – R1 600 893 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD requirements.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 legal qualification/ LLB Degree as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years appropriate post qualification litigation/ advisory
experience. Admittance as an Attorney or Advocate. Experience in legal
research and legal drafting. Sound knowledge and understanding of the
Constitution Law, Administrative Law and the Criminal Justice System.
Knowledge of Public Service Legislative and Governance Framework. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Finance Management, Treasury. Skills and Competencies: Legal
research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Analytical thinking; Communication
skills (written and verbal); Presentation and facilitation skills; Financial
management skills; Computer literacy; Strategic planning capabilities and
leadership skills; Ability to work as a team, individually and under pressure.
DUTIES : Conduct legal research including comparative legal research on court rules.
Draft rules of court memorandum and opinions. Draft rules of courts, court
procedures and submit to rules board and specialist committees. Conduct
39
regular review of existing rules of courts, facilitate amendments and repeal
outdated rules. Process approved amendments and new rules for approval.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mokoena Tel No: (012) 774 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 28/36 : STATE LAW ADVISOR: LEGISLATIVE DEVELOPMENT (LP7-LP8) REF NO:
5/08/2026 (X3 POSTS)
SALARY : R970 221 – R1 600 893 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD requirements.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 legal qualification/ LLB Degree as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years appropriate post qualification litigation/ advisory
experience. Admittance as an Attorney or Advocate. Experience in legal
research and legislative development. Sound knowledge and understanding of
the Constitution Law, Administrative Law and the Criminal Justice System.
Knowledge of Public Service Legislative and Governance Framework. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Finance Management Treasury. Skills and Competencies: Legal
research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Analytical thinking; Communication
skills (written and verbal); Presentation and facilitation skills; Financial
management skills; Computer literacy; Strategic planning capabilities and
leadership skills; Ability to work as a team, individually and under pressure.
DUTIES : Conduct legal research and policy analysis to guide the development of
legislation. Conduct analysis and review to identify legislation requiring
amendment and obsolete legislation. Conduct development of primary and
secondary legislation. Draft memoranda, reports and government notices.
Draft and prepare documents to facilitate presentation of Bills to Clusters and
Parliament.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mokoena Tel No: (012) 774 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
POST 28/37 : STATE LAW ADVISOR: CHIEF STATE LAW ADVISER (LP7-LP8) REF NO:
9/08/2026 (X6 POSTS)
SALARY : R970 221 – R1 600 893 per annum. The all-inclusive remuneration package
will be structured in accordance with OSD requirements.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 legal qualification/ LLB Degree as recognised by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years appropriate post qualification litigation/ advisory
experience. Admittance as an Attorney or Advocate. Experience in legal
research and legal drafting. Sound knowledge and understanding of the
Constitution Law, Administrative Law and the Criminal Justice System.
Knowledge of Public Service Legislative and Governance Framework. A valid
driver’s license. Knowledge, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations,
Public Finance Management, Treasury. Skills and Competencies: Legal
research and drafting; Dispute resolution; Analytical thinking; Communication
skills (written and verbal); Presentation and facilitation skills; Financial
management skills; Computer literacy; Strategic planning capabilities and
leadership skills; Ability to work as a team, individually and under pressure.
DUTIES : Conduct legal research including comparative legal research on legislative
development. Provide the preliminary opinions, certification of bills and advice
on legislative drafting. Scrutinise primary, secondary and subordinate
legislation for the national Departments and other organs of state. Scrutinise
and provide legal opinion on international agreements and related matters.
Render legal opinions as per the instructions received from national
Departments and other organs of state.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Sema Tel No: (012) 315 1333
40
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The
Human Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development,
Private Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First
Floor Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street,
Pretoria.
POST 28/38 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: LEGAL PROCESS (MR1-MR5) REF
NO: 6/08/2026
SALARY : R262 968 – R 1 155 777 per annum. The salary and all-inclusive package will
be structured in accordance with OSD requirements.
CENTRE : National Office: Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 legal qualification/ LLB Degree as recognised by SAQA.
Minimum experience ranging from zero to eight (8) years post qualification
experience in accordance with the relevant MR grade. Admittance as an
Attorney or Advocate will be an added advantage. Sound knowledge and
understanding of the Constitution, Administrative Law and the Criminal Justice
System. Knowledge of Public Service Legislative and Governance Framework.
Knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and Treasury regulations.
A valid driver’s license. Skills and Competencies: Legal research and drafting;
Dispute resolution; Analytical thinking; Communication skills (written and
verbal); Presentation and facilitation skills; Case Flow Management. Computer
literacy; Excellent Interpersonal Skills. Ability to work as a team, individually
and under pressure.
DUTIES : Process the receipts of presidential pardons. Process expungement and
section 327 applications. Provide reports and feedback on presidential
pardons, expungement and section 327 applications. Conduct legal research
and case law relevant to the presidential pardon, expungement and section
327 applications. Draft legal documents and process for approval on
presidential pardons, expungement and section 327 applications.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Mokoena Tel No: (012) 774 2026
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your application to:
https://forms.office.com/r/X2XaVPasWu OR Postal address: The Human
Resources: Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Private
Bag X81, Pretoria, 0001 OR Physical address: Application Box, First Floor
Reception, East Tower, Momentum Building, 329 Pretorius Street, Pretoria.
41
ANNEXURE I
DEPARTMENT OF LAND REFORM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : To apply, submit a completed Z83 form and detailed Curriculum Vitae (PDF
document to a maximum of 10 megabytes) via e-mail or hand delivery. The
Department will not be held responsible for server delays. Late applications
due to technical issues will not be considered. Shortlisted candidates must
provide certified copies of required documents (Identity Document,
qualifications, etc) where necessary and service certificates to support senior
management experience to Human Resources before the interviews, including
South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) evaluation reports for foreign
qualifications. Failure to comply will result in disqualification. To be appointed
at Senior Management Service (SMS) level, you must complete the SMS Pre-
entry programme offered by the National School of Government (NSG). Find
course details here: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/ appointment is subject to successful completion of the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to SMS and submission of proof. Shortlisted
applicants for the advertised vacancies will undergo two pre-entry
assessments: a practical assessment and an integrity assessment, both of
which form part of the selection criteria after the interview. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. NB: Please note that false or fraudulent qualifications submitted by
applicants will be reported to the South African Police Services (SAPS), and a
criminal case shall be opened. Applications: Please submit your application
before the closing date as late applications will not be considered. Do not
submit duplicate applications. If applying for multiple posts, submit separate
applications for each post. Applications submitted via email will be
acknowledged via an automated response. Applications received manually will
not be acknowledged due to high volumes of applications received. If you have
not heard from us within 3 months, please consider your application to be
unsuccessful. Should, during any stage of the recruitment process, a
moratorium be placed on the filling of posts or the Department is affected by
any process such as, but not limited to, restructuring or reorganisation of posts,
the Department reserves the right to cancel the recruitment process and re-
advertise the post at any time in the future. Important: DLRRD is an equal
opportunity employer committed to promoting representivity and affirmative
action. We encourage applications from all qualified candidates. The
Department reserves the right not to fill vacancies. By applying you consent to
the collection and processing of your personal information for recruitment
purposes. Shortlisted candidates will be required to be available for
assessments and interviews at a date and time as determined by the
Department. Shortlisted candidates will undergo personnel suitability checks,
security vetting and reference checks (including social media profiles).
Applications must declare any pending criminal, disciplinary or any other
allegations or investigations. Successful candidates must pass security
clearance, sign an employment contract, sign an annual performance
agreement and disclose financial interests. All applicants are required to
declare any conflict or perceived conflict of interest, to disclose memberships
of Boards and directorships that they may be associated with. Failure to
disclose relevant information may result in disqualification or termination.
ERRATUM: The position of Assistant Director: Employee Health and Wellness
ref 3/1/1/1/2026/173 for the Directorate: Corporate Services: Northern Cape
(Kimberley) that was advertised in Public Service Vacancy Circular 25 dated
17 July 2026 has reference. The position has been withdrawn. The Department
apologies for any inconvenience caused.
42
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/39 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CADASTRAL ADVISORY AND RESEARCH SERVICES
REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/205
Chief Directorate: Cadastral Advisory and Research Services
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services
(SMS).
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of Grade 12
Certificate and a four-year Bachelor’s Degree or Bachelor of Science Degree
in Geomatics / Land Surveying (NQF Level 7) as recognised by the South
African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) and a Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to
the SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Registered as a Professional Land
Surveyor or Geomatics Professional: Land Surveying, with the South African
Geomatics Council (SAGC). Registered as a Sectional Titles Practitioner in
terms of Section 5(2) of the Sectional Titles Act, 1986. Minimum of 5 years’
experience at a senior managerial level in a land surveying environment.
Appropriate post registration experience in cadastral surveying. A valid driver’s
licence. Job related knowledge: Cadastral surveying. Technical system.
Cadastral Spatial Information. Land Information Systems. Land Administration
Systems and Geographical Information Management. Knowledge of advances
in technology useful to the Cadastral Survey System. Performance
Management and Monitoring. Government systems and structures.
Government decision making processes. Programme setting process.
Understanding of the management information and formal reporting system.
Dealing with misconduct. Internal control and risk management. Project
management principles and tools. Budget systems. Financial Accounting
Systems. Public Finance Management. Job related skills: Project
management. Team management. Interpersonal relations. Budget forecasting.
Computer literacy. Resource planning. Problem solving and decision-making.
Time management. Business and Communication (verbal and written).
DUTIES : Manage and oversee the research and development of cadastral surveys.
Research ways of transforming, improving and rationalising the South African
Cadastral and Tenure Systems. Study world trends, legislative framework,
compare with other systems, propose amendments and report on findings.
Research and investigate ways of improving cadastral practices in South
Africa. Manage development towards amendment and streamlining of
legislation. Coordinate and develop tender specifications. Manage and
oversee the provision of internal and external professional advisory and
support services. Research, compile reports and supply information in respect
of internal and external cadastral matters and requests from State Organs,
Parastatals, Courts and Private Sector, in accordance with relevant legislation
and time frames, client’s request as well as within targets set by the Service
Delivery Improvement Programme. Render management and research for
state surveys, rural development and land tenue reform projects in accordance
with relevant legislation, terms of reference, pre-determined standards and
treasury instructions. Provide professional services to the public and
government departments on the surveys of state and trust land and state
domestic facilities undertaken by the private sector. Manage and oversee the
administration of international boundaries. Manage the administration of South
Africa international boundaries, in compliance with South African and
international legislation in as far as delineation and delimitation thereof.
Manage the research, investigation and finding solutions to anomalies in
Republic of South Africa international boundaries in conjunction with
representatives from the neighbouring states. Manage advisory services on
Republic of South Africa international boundary issues affecting State Organs
and Parastatals. Manage the physical delineation of international borders and
record keeping. Manage and oversee the registration of Sectional Title
Practitioners. Monitor Sectional Titles Practical Training Programme in
accordance with the Sectional Titles Act and training schedule. Provide
secretariat services for the registration of Sectional Titles Practitioners in
compliance with requirements of the Sectional Titles Act and regulations.
Maintain and update the register for Sectional Title Practitioners. Manage and
oversee the preparation of technical procedures and standards. Ensure
43
management of updating Surveyor’s General procedures and standards, in
compliance with legislation and in consultation with stakeholders. Investigate
effects of technological advancement on technical procedures and standards
and transform accordingly. Manage the preparation and implementation of new
legislation and review of regulations in terms of the Land Survey Act and any
other relevant legislation. Manage the implementation of new legislation.
Provide support to the Survey Regulations Board (SRB) for review of
regulations framed under the Act. Assist the Chief Surveyor-General with
administration and control of the Survey Regulations Board (SRB) and provide
secretariat thereto. Provide support to the Chief Surveyor-General in respect
of administration of the Geomatics Profession Act. Research and advise on
new legislation that has an effect on geomatics matters.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post205@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 28/40 : DIRECTOR: GEO-SPATIAL INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL
SUPPORT REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/206
Directorate: Geo-Spatial Information and Professional Support
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF Level 7) in Geomatics /
Surveying / Geographical Information Science / Geo-informatics or related
equivalent qualifications recognised by the South African Geomatics Council
and a Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to the SMS) submitted prior to
appointment. Registered as a Geomatics Professional with the South African
Geomatics Council. Minimum of 5 years’ experience at a middle / senior
managerial level in the geomatics environment. Appropriate post registration
experience in surveying and / or geo-spatial information management. A valid
driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Geospatial Information Management.
Land Surveying knowledge. Knowledge of research methodology. Technical
System knowledge. Spatial Data Infrastructure. Geographic Information
Systems. Geospatial Information knowledge. Performance Management and
Monitoring. Government systems and structures. Government decision making
processes. Programme setting process. Understanding of the management
information and formal reporting system. Dealing with Misconduct. Internal
Control and Risk Management. Project management principles and tools. The
political landscape of South Africa. Spatial Data Infrastructure Act 54 of 2003.
Land Survey Act, Act 8 of 1997. Geomatics Profession Act, Act 19 of 2013.
Spatial Planning and Land Use Management Act, Act 16 of 2013. Protection of
Personal Information Act, Act 4 of 2013. Promotion of Access to Information
Act, Act 2 of 2000. Public Finance Management Act, Act 1 of 1999. Public
Service Act Proclamation No. 103 of 1994 (as amended). Copyright Act, Act 98
of 1978. National Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act, Act 43 of
1996. Electronic Communications and Transactions Act, Act 25 of 2002.
National Archives and Records Service of South Africa Act, Act 43 of 1996. Civil
Aviation Act, Act 13 of 2009 (read together with the Civil Aviation Regulations,
2011, including Part 101 relating to Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems). United
Nations Integrated Geospatial Information Framework (IGIF) of 2018. Job
related skills: Project management. Team management. Interpersonal
relations. Budget forecasting. Computer literacy. Resource planning. Problem
solving and decision-making. Time management. Business. Communication
(both verbal and written). Customer focus and responsiveness. Innovation and
creativity. Planning and organising. Collaboration partnership. Negotiation.
Conflict management. Data and information management. Facilitation.
Analytical thinking. Contract management.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of geo-spatial information products and services. Supply
geo-spatial products and services. Maintain information on products and
ensure availability. Manage established outlets for products and services to
make information more accessible, including Service Level Agreements with
44
District Municipalities. Provide aerial photographic reproduction services.
Provide reproduction services. Print maps. Produce aerial photo mosaics.
Manage the provision or provide professional advisory services and undertake
relevant research and development. Oversee Professional Land Surveyors in
the performance of their duties. Provide professional advisory and support
services. Undertake relevant research and development. Plan and supervise
special projects. Support implementation of new systems and equipment.
Provide survey support to land reform programmes of the Department. Provide
training for SAGC registration in Professional and Technologist category (non-
employees). Manage the provision of technical training. Assist with the
geomatics officer certificate training. Provide experiential training for diploma
students. Provide a specialised library and museum service. Develop and
present technical training courses. Undertake development projects. Plan and
execute projects in accordance with best practice for project management as
required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post206@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 28/41 : DIRECTOR: SURVEYS SERVICES REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/207
Directorate: Surveys Services
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (all-inclusive package). The package
includes a basic salary (70% of package), and a flexible portion that may be
structured in accordance with the rules for Senior Management Services (SMS)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of Grade 12
Certificate and an undergraduate qualification (NQF 7), specifically in
Geomatics / Surveying or related equivalent qualifications recognised by the
South African Geomatics Council and a Nyukela (Pre-entry Certificate to the
SMS) submitted prior to appointment. Registered as a Professional Land
Surveyor with the South African Geomatics Council. Minimum of 5 years’
experience at a middle / senior managerial level in Land Surveying
environment. Appropriate post registration experience in land surveying. A valid
driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Geo-spatial Information Management.
Geodesy and Geodetic surveying. Topographic surveying. Spatial Data
Infrastructures. Cadastral Spatial Information knowledge. Geographical
Information Systems. Knowledge of Land Information Systems, Land
Administration Systems and Geographical Information Management.
Knowledge of advances in technology useful to the Cadastral, Geodetic,
Photogrammetric, Topographic and Cartographic Survey Systems.
Performance Management and Monitoring. Government systems and
structures. Government decision making processes. Programme setting
process. Understanding of the management information and formal reporting
system. Dealing with Misconduct. Internal Control and Risk Management.
Project management principles and tools. The political landscape of South
Africa. Spatial Data Infrastructure Act, Act 54 of 2003. Land Survey Act, Act 8
of 1997. Geomatics Profession Act, Act 19 of 2013. Spatial Planning and Land
Use Management Act, Act 16 of 2013. Protection of Personal Information Act,
Act 4 of 2013. Promotion of Access to Information Act 2 of 2000. Public Finance
Management Act, Act 1 of 1999. Public Service Act Proclamation No. 103 of
1994 (as amended). Copyright Act, Act 98 of 1978. National Archives and
Records Service of South Africa Act, Act 43 of 1996. Electronic
Communications and Transactions Act, Act 25 of 2002. National Archives and
Records Service of South Africa Act, Act 43 of 1996. Civil Aviation Act, Act 13
of 2009 (read together with the Civil Aviation Regulations, 2011, including Part
101 relating to Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems). United Nations Integrated
Geospatial Information Framework (IGIF) of 2018. United Nations Global
Geodetic Reference Frame Roadmap. Job related skills: Project management.
Team management. Interpersonal relations. Budget forecasting. Computer
literacy. Resource planning. Problem solving and decision-making. Time
management. Business. Communication (verbal and written). Customer focus
and responsiveness. Innovation and creativity. Planning and organising.
Collaboration partnership. Negotiation. Conflict management. Data and
45
information management. Facilitation. Analytical thinking. Contract
management. The ability to work efficiently and effectively at all times.
DUTIES : Manage the undertaking of field surveys. Manage the undertaking of field
surveys for geodetic surveys in accordance with the annual production plan.
Manage the undertaking of filed surveys for photogrammetric and topographic
surveys in accordance with the annual production plan. Manage the
undertaking of field surveys for land cover and land use mapping in accordance
with the annual production plan. Manage the acquisition of ancillary geo-spatial
data. Engage with various data custodians and other stakeholders on the need
for fundamental geo-spatial information. Manage the collection and processing
of ancillary geo-spatial information for mapping purposes in accordance with
the annual production plan. Manage the establishment and maintenance of
spatial reference framework (National Control Survey System) of South Africa.
Provide strategic leadership in national spatial reference frameworks. Manage
the establishment and maintenance of reference stations in accordance with
the annual production plan. Manage the horizontal control survey network at
all times. Manage the vertical control survey network at all times. Manage the
network of continuously operating GNSS reference stations (TrigNet). Provide
professional and technical support and client services to all spheres of
government including Rural Development and Land Reform programmes and
other organs of state. Provide advisory services, as required. Provide
professional and technical support and client services to all spheres of
government including rural development and land reform programmes and
other organs of state, as required, in accordance with the best practices for
project management and user needs. Participate in geodetic surveying and
geo-spatial information development projects in Africa. Participate in
development projects in Africa as approved. Plan and execute projects in
accordance with best practices for project management, as required.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 312 8344
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post207@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured and White Males and African, Coloured and Indian
Females and Persons with disabilities.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/42 : PROJECT COORDINATOR REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/204
Directorate: Operational Management
Re-advertisement, applicants who previously applied are encouraged to re-
apply.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Level 10)
CENTRE : Limpopo (Polokwane)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and Bachelor’s Degree / National Diploma in Agriculture /
Development Studies / Social Science / Law (NQF Level 6) or any related
equivalent qualification. Minimum 3 years’ experience in land reform
environment. A valid driver’s licence. Job related knowledge: Development
management including strategic management. Research methods and
techniques. Community facilitation. Knowledge of land redistribution and
development related issues. Development management including strategic
management. Understanding and interpret Business Plan. Job related skills:
Project management. Negotiation. Contract management. Leadership.
Communication (verbal and written). Ability to draft terms of reference for
service providers. Ability to manage consultants. Excellent report writing.
Initiative, able to take responsibility and meet deadlines. Computer literacy.
Ability to produce report. Ability to facilitate community meetings. Good
networking. Willingness to travel, to spend extended periods in the field and
work irregular hours.
DUTIES : Coordinate the lodgement of land claims. Categorise claims per local
municipality. Engage municipalities on claims to be settled. Validate land
claims. Conduct oral and archival research. Conduct site inspection process
(Mapping). Identify homestead. Partaking in analysis of aerial photograph
reports. Facilitate where there are overlapping land claims. Facilitate
separation of tenants, beneficial of occupation and registered land rights. Verify
lodged claim. Conduct in loco inspection. Produce in loco inspection report.
46
Assist in closing of commitment register. Coordinate clearance of suspense
account. Manage payment of beneficiaries. Negotiate the settlement of claims.
Conduct option exercise with claimants. Identify claims for historical and
current valuation by the Office of the Valuer General. Escalate historical
valuation for offers. Settle the claims. Conduct verification process. Conduct
analysis of family tree. Sign off completed name verification report. Draft
Section 42d submission.
ENQUIRIES : Mr KE Senosha Tel No: (015) 495 1905
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 61
Biccard street, Polokwane, 0700 or by email to Post204@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 28/43 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS REF NO:
3/1/1/1/2026/208
Directorate: Facilities Management Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate and a National Diploma in Public Management / Supply Chain
Management / Business Management / Office Management and Technology /
Project Management / Property Management and / or in Built environment
(NQF Level 6) or related qualification. A valid driver's licence. Minimum of 3
years’ experience at supervisory level in Public-Private Partnerships
environment. Job related knowledge: Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA). Treasury regulations. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act
(PPPFA). Asset Management Framework. Job related skills: Computer literacy.
Communication (verbal and written). Planning and organising. Analytical
thinking. Problem solving. Negotiations. Project management. Interpersonal
relations.
DUTIES : Monitor the execution of capital works planned maintenance project within
DLRRD. Ensure intervention follow up of projects with Department of Public
Works and Infrastructure (DPWI) for progress made. Ensure the Project
Management System / Project Execution Plan / Procurement Instructions from
Key Accounts Manager (Head Office) are requested monthly to prepare reports
to the Director: Facilities Management Services. Attend walk abouts / briefing
meetings / inspections and practical completion / handover meetings with
Department of Public Works and Infrastructure and follow up on snags with the
Project Manager. Attend the client forum meetings / allocation meetings / twice
a year / technical meeting where the need arises and attending the handover
meetings. Management and administer capital works planned maintenance
projects within DLRRD. Identify and control capital works planned maintenance
projects. Prioritise capital works / planned maintenance projects. Compile and
verify needs assessment and submit verified needs assessment to Director:
Facilities Management Services for certification. Compile inputs regarding
User Asset Management Plan in terms of capital works and planned
maintenance. Reporting on capital infrastructure projects currently in progress
and finalised project. Render management of financial reporting and financial
management services. Manage and compile the monthly financial statements,
interim financial statements, and annual statements of capital works for
submission to the Deputy Director: Facilities Management. Analyse the
financial report and respond to enquiries by the Deputy Director: Accounting
Management and Internal and external Auditors. Respond to all enquiries
relating to capital works projects relating to financial statements. Manage
capital works pace payment to Department Public Works and Infrastructure.
Process payments of projects to Department Public Works and Infrastructure
via sundry payment request to the Directorate: Financial Accounting. Liaise
with the Budget Controller of the Directorate for confirmation of funds. Liaise
with DPWI after payment has been done and ensuring that proof of payment is
submitted to Department Public Works and Infrastructure. Provide technical
assistance, support and advice for Public Private Partnership (PPP)
Infrastructure projects. Support the execution of detailed financial analysis of
PPP’s projects. Provide assistance with project inceptions register. Provide
input in the assessment of value-for-money criterion. Participate in budget
related meetings. Prepare budget inputs and expenditure reports for the unit.
Provide support in the implementation of PPP infrastructure project. Assist in
47
monitoring the project contract management schedules. Ensure cooperative
governance of PPP concessions. Facilitate communication between the
Department and PPP. Assist in implementation of partnership agreement.
Assist in implementation of the PPP agreement from inception to termination.
Assist in managing the work of the Private Party. Certification of invoices and
supporting documents prior to payment. Keep changing request register.
Ensure compliance with output specification and PPP agreement. Filling of the
PPP documents.
ENQUIRIES : Mr P Chuene Tel No: (012) 312 8644
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van der Walt Street), Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0002 or by email to Post208@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: African, Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured
and Indian Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 28/44 : SECRETARY REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/201
Directorate: Property Research and Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Gauteng (Pretoria)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related knowledge: Computer literacy (Microsoft Word,
Microsoft Excel, PowerPoint, etc.) Job related skills: Good telephone etiquette.
Sound organisational ability. Good people skills. Computer literacy. Ability to
communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds (both written and verbal). Ability to act with tact and discretion.
DUTIES : Provide a secretariat / receptionist support service to the Director. Receive
telephone calls and refer the calls to the correct role players if not meant for
the relevant senior manager. Record appointments and events in the diary.
Type documents for the senior manager and other staff within the unit. Operate
office equipment e.g. computers and photocopiers. Provide a clerical support
service to the Senior Manager. Liaise with travel agencies to make travel
arrangements. Check arrangements when relevant documents are received.
Arrange meetings and events for the senior manager and the staff in the unit.
Identifies venues, invite role players, organise refreshments and sets up
schedules for meeting and events. Process the travel and subsistence claims
for the unit. Process all invoices that emanate from the activities of the work of
the senior manager. Records basic minutes of meetings of the senior manager
where required. Draft routine correspondence and reports. Do filing of
documents for the senior manager and the unit where necessary. Administer
matters like leave registers and telephonic accounts. Receives, records and
distributes all incoming and outgoing documents. Handle the procurement of
standard items like stationary, refreshments etc. Collects all relevant
documents to enable the Director to prepare for meetings. Remains up to date
with regard to prescripts / policies and procedures applicable to her / his work
environment to ensure efficient and effective support to the senior manager.
Study the relevant public service and the departmental prescripts / policies and
other documents to ensure that the application thereof is understood properly.
Keep abreast with the procedures and process that apply in the office of the
senior manager.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MT Molotsi Tel No: (012) 312 9730
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 600
Lilian Ngoyi Street (formerly known as Van Der Walt Street) Berea Park,
Pretoria, 0001 or by email to Post201@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian
and White Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 28/45 : AUXILIARY SERICES OFFICER REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/202
Directorate: Geo-Spatial Information and Professional Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Western Cape (Mowbray)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. No experience required. Job related knowledge: Computer literacy.
Basic understanding of maps and cadastral documents. Job related skills:
Good interpersonal relations. Good communication (verbal and written).
48
Computer software ability. Good organising ability. Above average attention to
detail.
DUTIES : Maintain electronic support system for component. Compile a portfolio of
evidence of all requests received via email from clients and the client service
desk. Compile accurate records of all reproduction requests received and
dispatched. Compile monthly reporting for the client service and reprographics
components. Financial management for payments received from clients. Liaise
with the finance sections for payments received. Allocate and reconcile
payments with clients’ orders. Liaise with the finance section for the preparation
of invoices. Ordering of map stock for the reprographics component and the
map store. Order maps for components to ensure minimum threshold available
for clients. Assist to ensure that the dispatch environment is not left unattended.
Manage receipts of client devices for data transfers. Compile a register of client
data transfer devices received and dispatched. Notify clients accordingly.
Compete various administrative tasks. Complete and submit leave forms in
accordance with departmental policy. Answer telephones relating to client
requests in the client service component. Undertake performance
management.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Madlala Tel No: (021) 658 4300
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 4th floor,
No 2 Riebeeck Street, ABSA Building, Cape Town or by email to
Post202@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Indian and White Males and African, Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with disabilities.
POST 28/46 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/203
Directorate: Legal Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Mpumalanga (Nelspruit)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate. Job related skills: Good communication (verbal and written).
Planning and organisation. Computer literacy. Interpersonal relations. Ability to
work within a team.
DUTIES : Render general clerical support services. Record, organise, store, capture and
retrieve correspondence and data (line function). Update registers and
statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make photocopies and receive or send
facsimiles. Distribute documents / packages to various stakeholders as
required. Keep and maintain the filling system for the component. Type letters
and / or other correspondence when required. Keep and maintain the incoming
and outgoing document register of the component. Taking and drafting of
minutes. Provide supply chain clerical support services within the component.
Liaise with internal and external stakeholders in relation to procurement of
goods and services. Obtain quotations and complete procurement forms for
the purchasing of standard office items. Stock control of office stationery. Keep
and maintain the asset register of the component. Provide personnel
administration clerical support services within the component. Maintain a leave
register for the component. Keep and maintain personnel records in the
component. Keep and maintain the attendance register of the component.
Arrange travelling and accommodation. Provide financial administration
support services in the component. Capture and update expenditure in the
component. Check correctness of subsistence and travel claims of officials and
submit to manager for approval. Handle telephone accounts and petty cash for
the component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr MO Fakude Tel No: (013) 754 8074
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 17 Van
Rensburg Street, 7th Floor Bateleur Building, Mbombela, 1200 or by email to
Post203@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured, Indian and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
POST 28/47 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK REF NO: 3/1/1/1/2026/209
Directorate: Financial And Supply Chain Management Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : KwaZulu Natal (Pietermaritzburg)
49
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirements: Applicants must be in a possession of a Grade 12
Certificate or related equivalent qualification. Job related knowledge: Basic
knowledge of supply chain duties, practices as well as the ability to capture
data, operate a computer and collecting statistics. Basic knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework governing the Public Service. Basic
knowledge of work procedures in terms of the working environment. Job
related skills: Planning and organisation. Computer literacy. Communication
(verbal and written). Interpersonal relations. Ability to work within a team.
DUTIES : Render asset management clerical support. Compile and maintain records
(e.g. asset records / databases). Check and issue furniture, equipment and
accessories to components and individuals. Identify redundant, non-
serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal. Verify asset register. Render
demand and acquisition clerical support. Update and maintain a supplier
(including contractors) database. Register suppliers on LOGIS or similar
system. Request and receive quotations. Capture specification on the
electronic purchasing system. Place orders. Issue and receive bid documents.
Provide secretariat or logistical support during the bid consideration and
contracts process. Compile draft documents as required. Render logistical
support services. Place orders for goods. Receive and verify goods from
suppliers. Capture goods in registers databases. Receive request for goods
from end users. Issue goods to end users. Maintain goods register. Update and
maintain register of suppliers.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Mathonsi Tel No: (033) 264 9500
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted by hand delivery during office hours to: 1st Floor,
270 Jabu Ndlovu Street (formerly known as Loop Street), Pietermaritzburg,
3200 or by email to Post209@dlrrd.gov.za
NOTE : EE Targets: Coloured, Indian and White Males and Coloured and White
Females and Persons with Disabilities.
50
ANNEXURE J
NATIONAL SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
The National School of Government (The NSG) contributes to the building of an effective, capable and
professional public service through the provision of relevant, mandatory and non-mandatory training
programmes. Suitably qualified, dynamic, passionate, and experienced persons are invited to apply for
the vacant permanent positions. Applicants are requested to visit the NSG website at www.thensg.gov.za
or www.dpsa.gov.za for information on the requirements and duties of the position.
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted using the link provided, should you submit your
application and CVs to the incorrect link it will be regarded as lost and will not
be considered. For Attention and Enquiries: Kindly contact Mr Mpho Mugodo
(012) 441 6017 or Mr Thabo Ngwenya (012) 441-6108.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must consist of: A fully completed and signed new Z83 form with
a comprehensive CV containing contactable references. Use of the old Z83
Form will result in disqualification. Candidates should not attach certified
documents to the application. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. The relevant
reference number must be written on the application form. Foreign
qualifications must be accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South
African Qualification Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts
will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical
exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo
psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural
preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a
practical exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct)
Assessment. All appointments are subject to personnel suitability checks such
as security vetting, citizen verification, financial records check, and
qualifications verifications. Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements as well as applications that are received late, will not
be considered. The selection process of the SMS post will be in line with the
Senior Management Service requirements. The successful candidate will be
expected to sign a performance agreement within three months from the date
of assumption of duties and where applicable to disclose particulars of all
registrable financial interests within a month. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department to achieve its
employment equity targets. It is the Department’s intention to promote equity
(race, gender, and disability) through the filling of this post. The NSG reserves
the right not to make an appointment and to use other recruitment processes.
Correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates only. Successful
completion of the Senior Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela) is
required for appointment to the SMS posts. Enrolment for the course should
be made on the NSG’s website at
https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-programme.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/48 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND SPECIALISED
PROGRAMME REF NO: NSG 13 /2026
Job Purpose: To lead and manage business development and specialised
programmes implementation that support the co-creation and facilitation of
education, training, and development (ETD) interventions
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), an inclusive remuneration package
commencing
CENTRE : Pretoria.
REQUIREMENTS : A tertiary qualification at (NQF level 7) as recognized by SAQA in Business
Administration / Management or Marketing Communication / Management.
Registration with a relevant professional body will also be an added advantage.
The job holder will be subjected to a security vetting process, the clearance
level of which will be determined. Successful completion of the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme (Nyukela). Experience: five years of
proven experience at the senior management level. Proven experience in
51
business development, contract negotiations and stakeholder management.
Knowledge: In-depth theoretical and practical knowledge of the education,
training, and development environment, in particular business development. In
depth understanding of the public sector, relevant policies and applicable
legislative frameworks (including but not limited to: Public Service Act; Public
Administration and Management Act; Public Service Regulatory Frameworks).
Knowledge of professional bodies and regulatory body requirements (South
African Qualifications Authority, Quality Council for Trades and Occupations,
Council for Higher Education) Policy development, analysis and
implementation. Advanced computer literacy, including excellent working
knowledge of MS Office suite and relevant software for data analysis.
Knowledge on assessing the effects of projects, applying new developments
and innovation. Batho Pele principles. Skills: Proven advanced writing skills,
proofreading, editing, including report writing, submissions and articles. Digital
skills to work in digital environments with digital systems, management and
reporting tools. Good conflict management skills. Advanced Computer skills in
MS Office Suite. Creative and analytical skills. Competencies: Must be able to
provide a vision, set the direction for the unit and inspire others to deliver on
the organisational mandate. Plan, manage, monitor and evaluate specific
activities to deliver the desired outputs. Compile and manage budgets, control
cash flow, institute risk management and administer tender procurement
processes by generally recognised financial practices to ensure the
achievement of strategic organisational objectives. Promote the generation
and sharing of knowledge and learning to enhance the organisation's collective
knowledge. High standards of ethical and moral conduct. Personal Attributes:
Participate in professional development growth activities and stay up to date
with business solutions and trends. Ability to multi-task, organise, prioritise and
pay attention to detail. Work independently while contributing to a team
environment. Problem solving and conflict resolution skills. Establish and
maintain effective working relationships with management, employees,
stakeholders and the public. Integrity and honesty. Travel and work extended
hours.
DUTIES : Lead in generating market intelligence and diagnostic information that will
inform demand for new product/business development opportunities and
initiatives. Lead and manage marketing and visibility of NSG products and
services (advocacy programmes) and provide support to piloting new products.
Collaborate with business units and work in integrated teams to determine ETD
interventions. Lead and manage the initiation and conclusion of MoUs /MoAs
with identified clients and partners. Lead and manage implementation plans
related to signed MoUs/ MoAs, in liaison with internal business units. Monitor
ETD delivery and performance against signed MoUs/ MoAs, as well as post-
delivery support. Manage collaborative review and feedback sessions with
clients and stakeholders. Build and sustain client loyalty and NSG brand
through client support and liaison. Identify and incubate innovative specialised
programmes, projects and partnerships to support ETD delivery and attract
new clients. Conduct feasibility assessments and develop business cases for
specialised programmes and projects. Develop project and programme plans,
including objectives, deliverables, milestones and resource requirements.
Coordinate and manage the implementation of specialised programmes and
projects in collaboration with internal and external stakeholders. Support
curriculum development, learning content design and partnership
arrangements for specialised programmes. Monitor, evaluate and report on
programme and project performance, risks, sustainability and implementation
progress. Identify and foster opportunities to support increased market share
(training uptake numbers and revenue generated). Establish and manage
networks and multi-sector relationships that serve the interests of the NSG.
Support other public sector institutions through partnerships in building
capacity. Chair/ oversee relevant internal business development committee
structures. Participate in strategic external and internal forums including NSG-
led forums. Participate in capacity building interventions, including facilitation
of ETD interventions, publications and presentation of papers. Lead, direct and
manage the resources (people, finance, systems, assets) allocated within the
chief directorate. Implement operations management within the business unit,
including determination of service standards, standard operating procedures,
business process management, total quality management and digital
transformation. Manage the strategic planning and performance of the chief
directorate. Manage the budget allocated to the business unit. Identify and
52
manage strategic and operational risks within the business unit, as well as
mitigation plans, including business continuity plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
APPLICATIONS : CHIEF DIRECTOR: BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND SPECIALISED
PROGRAMME REF NO: NSG 13/2026 – Fill out form
POST 28/49 : DIRECTOR: CADET AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT REF NO: NSG 14/2026
Job Purpose: To manage and support the co-creation and the facilitation
(through direct, influence, and/or referral approaches) of Youth ETD
interventions and youth for capacity development and support for the public
sector by the National School of Government.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum Level 13, (all-inclusive remuneration package)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum bachelor’s degree or equivalent (NQF level 7) in Management
Studies, Human and Social Studies, Education, Training Development or
related field. Registration with a relevant professional body will also be an
added advantage. The successful applicant will be subjected to security vetting
at an appropriate clearance level for senior managers. Experience: Five (5)
years of proven relevant experience at a middle/senior managerial level in the
areas of ETD interventions and youth capacity development. Knowledge: In-
depth theoretical and practical knowledge of the education, training, and
development environment, in particular business development. In-depth
understanding of the public sector, relevant policies and applicable legislative
frameworks (including but not limited to: Public Service Act; Public
Administration and Management Act; Public Service Regulatory Frameworks).
Knowledge of professional bodies and regulatory body requirements (South
African Qualifications Authority, Quality Council for Trades and Occupations,
Council for Higher Education), Policy development, analysis and
implementation. Advanced computer literacy, including excellent working
knowledge of MS Office suite and relevant software for data analysis.
Knowledge on assessing the effects of projects, applying new developments
and innovation. Batho Pele principles. Skills: Advanced proficiency in
communication, facilitation and presentations. Planning, organising, project
management, financial management. Emotional intelligence and interpersonal
relations. Research methodologies to analyse data and information (qualitative
and quantitative). Computer literacy. Competencies Must be able to provide a
vision, set the direction for the organisation and inspire others to deliver on the
organisational mandate. Must be able to plan, manage, monitor and evaluate
specific activities to deliver the desired outputs. Compile and manage budgets,
control cash flow, institute risk management and administer tender
procurement processes in accordance with generally recognised financial
practices to ensure the achievement of strategic organisational objectives.
Initiate and support organisational transformation and change to successfully
implement new initiatives and deliver on service delivery commitments.
Promote the generation and sharing of knowledge and learning to enhance the
collective knowledge of the organisation. Explore and implement new ways of
delivering services that contribute to the improvement of organisational
processes to achieve organisational goals. People management skills. Ability
to put people first in delivery of services (Batho Pele). High standards of
integrity and ethics. Personal Attributes: Participate in professional
development growth activities to maintain professional knowledge and keep up
to date with business solutions trends. Ability to multi-task, organize and
prioritize. Work independently while contributing to a team environment.
Problem solving and conflict resolution skills. Good interpersonal skills and
ability to work cordially with management, employees, stakeholders and the
public. Willingness to travel and work extended hours, when required.
DUTIES : Analyse strategic and policy documents, statutory reports and other
mechanisms to identify capacity development and delivery modalities.
Undertake research of local and international best practices to identify cutting
edge capacity development interventions. Identify appropriate strategies and
learning areas to meet capacity development needs. Manage the provision of
high-quality capacity development through formal courses, programmes,
workshops and seminars, just-in-time interventions, and follow-up institutional
support. Lead and oversee the pilot and iteration of organisational learning
strategies that contribute to service impact. Inform project plans, budget plans
and concept notes to guide learning strategies. Support in curriculum
53
formulation and content, including the identification of platforms and partners
as well as critical reading and analysis. Serve on project teams for new
curriculum development. Support the development and/or enhancement of
facilitator, moderator and assessor competence profiles based on capacity
development content and delivery requirements. Determine requirements and
capabilities towards the appointment and/or contracting of panel of experts,
partners and HEIs. Support the management and the review and update of
curriculum content, including customisation of content. Oversee the orientation
of capacity development offerings. Provide effective and efficient programme
and project monitoring and management. Support the recruitment and/or
contracting of panel of experts, partners and HEIs pertinent to the capacity
development intervention. Provide collaborative review, regular quality
assurance, and feedback sessions with internal and external stakeholders.
Support the adherence to accreditation requirements, support assessment and
certification, including timely issuing of certificates. Determine and provide
post-delivery support to individuals and institutions, as well as case file
management and data management. Assess the monitoring and evaluation
reports, post-programme delivery, for quality management and improvements.
Establish and manage public and private sector networks and multi-sector
relationships relevant to the subject matter area located within the bands.
Manage cross-functional projects to advance capacity development support
initiatives. Participate in capacity development interventions, including
facilitation of offerings. Manage the resources (people, finance, systems,
assets) allocated within the directorate. Implement operations management
within the directorate, including determination of service standards, standard
operating procedures, business process management, total quality
management and digital transformation. Develop appropriate strategies and
plans for achieving performance targets and directorate requirements,
including quarterly performance reporting. Identify and manage strategic and
operational risks within the directorate and mitigation plans, including business
continuity plans. Manage a team of employees expected to accomplish
assigned duties efficiently, effectively, and competently and strive for
improvement and excellence in all work.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
APPLICATIONS : APPLY USING THIS LINK: APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT DIRECTOR:
CADET AND YOUTH DEVELOPMENT NSG, 14/2026. – Fill out form
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/50 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: LEARNER RECORDS REF NO: NSG 15/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree on NQF level 7 in Public Administration, or related field.
Registration with a relevant professional body will also be an added advantage.
Experience: A minimum of five (5) years of relevant experience, including at
least three (3) years at the Assistant Director or equivalent level in learner
records or supporting ETD practices. The job holder will be subjected to a
security vetting process, the clearance level of which will be determined.
Knowledge of the Skills: Development landscape in South Africa. Thorough
understanding of the public sector, relevant policies and applicable legislative
frameworks (including but not limited to: Public Service Act; Public
Administration and Management Act; Public Service Regulatory Frameworks).
Policy development, analysis and implementation. Advanced computer
literacy, including excellent working knowledge of MS Office suite and relevant
software for data analysis. Knowledge on assessing the effects of projects,
applying new developments and innovation. Skills: Strong interpersonal skills.
Problem-solving skills. Research and analysis techniques. Proficiency in
communication and presentation skills. Excellent project, time, and people
management skills. Proposal and report writing skills. Excellent organising and
planning skills, computer literacy in Microsoft Office Suite, and digital skills.
Personal Attributes: Participate in professional development growth activities
for Participate in professional development growth activities for maintaining
professional knowledge and staying current with research practices and trends.
Ability to multi-task and organize, prioritize, and follow multiple projects and
tasks through to completion with an attention to detail. Ability to work
independently while contributing to a team environment. Commitment to quality
54
and continuous learning. Professional behaviour and sound judgement. Ability
to establish and maintain effective working relationships with management,
employees, stakeholders, and the public. Integrity and honesty; detail oriented;
creative and innovative; ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Verify the accuracy and correctness of invoices and course offers. Ensure the
accuracy of supporting evidence uploaded on MyNSG platform. Verify captured
learner results on the MyNSG. Develop, review and enforce quality assurance
standards and control measures for learner records, assessments, moderation
and certification processes in line with legislative and institutional
requirements. Conduct periodic quality reviews and internal audits of learner
records and MyNSG data to assess compliance, accuracy and effectiveness,
and implement corrective and preventive actions where deficiencies are
identified. Monitor the effectiveness of quality management interventions by
analysing error trends, audit findings and stakeholder feedback, and
recommend continuous improvement initiatives to enhance service delivery
and records integrity Manage timeous allocations of invoices for processing.
Approve payment advice documentation. Manage timeous submission of
payment advice to Finance. Report on status of invoices. Respond to learner
and client queries and requests. Ensure that complaints are properly recorded,
tracked and channelled properly. Resolve disputes with assessors and
moderators, ETQAs, clients and learners. Manage relations with ETQAs on
verification and accreditation. Manage the assignment submission dates.
Approve extensions on assignment submissions. Manage the capturing of
assignment records into the MyNSG. Manage the batching of assignments per
training offers. Manage the deployment of assessors and moderators. Manage
the implementation of assessment policies with HEIs. Manage the upload of
learner assessment and moderation results on ETQAs systems. Manage
uploading requests for external moderation and relevant documents
(moderation reports, learner lists per course/US, assessors and moderators)
in the ETQA system as per the set requirements. Ensure that there are proper
filing systems and all portfolios to be moderated are available (either online or
physically). Compile and implement a management improvement plan to
ensure all findings and issues formally raised by ETQAs are addressed.
Manage the resources (people, finance, systems, assets) allocated within the
sub-directorate. Implement operations management within the sub-directorate,
including determination of service standards, standard operating procedures,
business process management, total quality management and digital
transformation. Develop appropriate strategies and plans for the achievement
of performance targets and sub-directorate requirements, including
performance reporting. Identify and manage strategic and operational risks
within the sub-directorate, as well as mitigation plans, including business
continuity plans. Supervise employees. Strategic planning, performance
management monitoring and reporting of unit performance. Risk management
as well as mitigation plans, including business continuity plans.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
APPLICATIONS : APPLY USING THIS LINK: APPLICATION FOR DEPUTYDIRECTOR:
LEARNER RECORDS REF NO: NSG 15/2026 – Fill out form
POST 28/51 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET MANAGEMENT REF
NO: NSG 17/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), an inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised bachelor’s degree or equivalent (NQF level 7) in the field of
Supply Chain Management, Logistics, Finance, or a related field. Registration
with a relevant SCM professional body will be an advantage. Experience: A
minimum of five (5) years’ experience in Supply Chain Management, Asset
Management, Logistics, within the education and training or related field, of
which three (3) years must be at supervisory Assistant Director or equivalent
level. The incumbent must undergo security vetting, and clearance will be
determined. Advanced knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act
(PFMA), Treasury Regulations, Supply Chain Management frameworks, and
public sector financial management practices. Advanced knowledge and
understanding of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and public
sector legislation, including the Public Service Act, Public Administration
Management Act (PAMA), Public Service Regulations, and related governance
frameworks. Extensive knowledge of demand management, acquisition
55
management, logistics management, contract management, supplier
management, asset management, disposal management, and inventory
management principles and practices. Advanced knowledge of government
transversal systems and procurement platforms, such as BAS, LOGIS, Central
Supplier Database (CSD), e-Tender Portal, and related SCM information
systems. Knowledge of corporate governance, risk management, internal
control systems, audit processes, fraud prevention, ethics management, and
compliance monitoring. Knowledge of strategic planning, budgeting,
performance management, project management, stakeholder management,
and service delivery improvement frameworks within government institutions.
Treasury Regulations and SCM Frameworks. Batho Pele principles.
Experience working on BAS & LOGIS and CSD. Skills: Demand, Acquisition,
Logistics, Contract, and Asset Management. Contract Management and
Supplier Relationship Management. Bid Administration and Secretariat
Support to Bid Committees. Financial and asset management. Computer
Literacy and Proficiency in Government Transversal Systems (BAS, LOGIS,
CSD, eTender Portal, and Microsoft Office Suite). Project and process
management. Leadership and people management. Governance and
compliance orientation. Problem-solving and decision-making. Integrity and
accountability. Reporting and compliance management. Personal Attributes:
Participate in professional development growth activities for maintaining
professional knowledge and staying current with curricular trends. Ability to
multi-task and organize and prioritise. Ability to work independently while
contributing to a team environment. Problem solving and conflict resolution
skills. Good stakeholder management skills. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Coordinate SCM planning, reporting, risk management, and audit processes,
including the implementation of audit action plans and corrective measures.
Oversee supplier and contract management processes to ensure effective
service delivery, value for money, and compliance with contractual obligations.
Monitor SCM performance indicators and prepare management reports on
procurement trends, compliance levels, and operational efficiency. Promote
ethical procurement practices and implement measures to prevent fraud,
corruption, irregular expenditure, and SCM system abuse. Develop, review and
implement demand and acquisition management policies, frameworks,
processes and procedures. Coordinate the compilation, consolidation and
approval of the Annual Procurement Plan in line with budget allocations and
operational requirements. Oversee the development of specifications/terms of
reference to ensure completeness, compliance and standardisation. Manage
acquisition processes, including bid administration and compliance with SCM
prescripts. Establish and provide secretariat support and/or advisory services
to Bid Specification Committees (BSC), Bid Evaluation Committees (BEC), and
Bid Adjudication Committees (BAC). Maintain effective record-keeping
systems and procurement documentation in accordance with legislative and
audit requirements. Monitor and evaluate demand and acquisition performance
and implement corrective measures where required. Manage the prevention of
fraud, corruption, irregular expenditure, and SCM system abuse within demand
and acquisition management processes. Develop, review and implement
logistics, disposal and asset management policies, systems and procedures.
Oversee the provisioning, storage, distribution and control of goods and
services. Manage inventory and stock control systems to ensure accuracy,
safeguarding, and accountability. Coordinate the identification and disposal of
redundant, obsolete, or unserviceable assets in line with legislative and
regulatory prescripts. Ensure the maintenance, updating, and integrity of asset
registers for movable and immovable assets. Monitor asset verification
processes, including physical condition assessments, utilisation reviews, and
performance reporting. Conduct periodic asset verification and reconciliation
processes to ensure asset existence, completeness, and accuracy. Analyse
asset performance, utilisation, depreciation trends, and lifecycle management
data for strategic decision-making and reporting purposes. Compile and submit
asset management reports in compliance with regulatory, audit, and
organisational reporting requirements. Provide technical advice and guidance
to business units on SCM, logistics, disposal, and asset management
practices. Promote awareness, compliance, and adherence to asset
management policies, procedures, and internal control measures across the
institution. Establish and maintain strategic and operational relations with
internal business units and external stakeholders (National Treasury, DPSA) to
support effective service delivery. Facilitate integrated planning and
56
collaboration across business units to inform procurement planning, demand
management, and asset lifecycle management processes. Undertake
benchmarking to identify and implement innovative supply chain and asset
management practices. Represent the organisation in internal and external
forums/ structures to influence compliance, policy alignment, and best practice
implementation. Identify and leverage collaborative opportunities to strengthen
supply chain efficiency, asset management capability, and overall institutional
performance. Manage the resources (people, finance, systems, assets)
allocated within the directorate. Manage the implementation of operations
management within the business unit, including determining service standards,
standard operating procedures, business process management, total quality
management, and digital transformation. Develop appropriate strategies and
plans for achieving performance targets and business unit requirements,
including quarterly performance reporting. Identify and manage strategic and
operational risks within the business unit, as well as mitigation plans, including
business continuity plans. Manage a team of employees and service providers
who are expected to accomplish assigned duties efficiently, effectively, and
competently and to strive for improvement and excellence in all work
performed.
ENQUIRIES : Mpho Mugodo Tel No: (012) 441 6017
APPLICATIONS : APPLY USING THIS LINK: APPLICATION FOR DEPUTY DIRECTOR:
SUPPLY CHAIN AND ASSET MANAGEMENT NO: NSG 17/2026 – FILL
OUT FORM
POST 28/52 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ETD COORDINATION REF NO: NSG 18/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A tertiary qualification registered at (NQF Level 6) in Human Resource
Development, Business Administration & Management, Public Administration
& Management, Operations Management or Project Management. Experience:
3 years' experience in education, training, and development (ETD)
coordination or working in an ETD environment, including supervisory
experience. The job holder will be subjected to a security vetting process, the
clearance level of which will be determined. Knowledge: Good understanding
of the education, training, and development (ETD) environment. Practical and
proven knowledge of ETD co-ordination or client service coordination.
Proficiency with necessary technology such as software applications and
computers. Good understanding of the public sector, relevant policies, and
applicable legislative frameworks (including but not limited to: Public Service
Act; Public Administration and Management Act; Public Service Regulatory
Frameworks). Knowledge of professional bodies and regulatory body
requirements (e.g., South African Qualifications Authority, Quality Council for
Trades and Occupations, Council for Higher Education). Advanced computer
literacy, including excellent working knowledge of MS Office suite and relevant
software for data analysis. Batho Pele principles. Skills: Events and project
management. Time management. Strong interpersonal skills. Problem solving
skills. Research and analysis techniques. Excellent organising and planning
skills. Computer literacy in Microsoft Office Suite and other relevant solutions.
Proven writing skills, including report writing, submissions and articles. Digital
skills to work in digital environments with digital systems, management and
reporting tools. Good conflict management skills. Creative and analytical skills.
Personal Attributes: Participate in professional development growth activities
for maintaining professional knowledge and staying current with business
solutions trends. Ability to multitask and organise, prioritise, and follow multiple
projects and tasks through to completion with an attention to detail. Ability to
work independently while contributing to a team environment. Ability to analyse
problems, identify solutions and take appropriate action, resolve conflicts using
independent judgment and decision-making processes. Ability to establish and
maintain effective working relationships with management, employees,
stakeholders, and the public. Integrity and honesty; detail-oriented; creative
and innovative; ability to work under pressure. Travel and work extended hours.
DUTIES : The incumbent will be responsible for the following Key Results Areas: Co-
ordinate the planning process for the delivery of ETD events (e.g., face-to-face,
virtual, e-learning and blended training). Manage bulk bookings not to exceed
the actual booked number. Co-ordinate ETD interventions with client
departments, contracted service providers, and internal business divisions.
57
Manage the processes related to procurement of logistics (e.g. venue and
catering). Deployment of the panel of experts and HEl's in accordance with
their area of specialization. Prepare case files for handover (final attendance
registers, verification of captured records, deviation memos/submissions) and
submit to Learner Records after course reports. Management of priority clients
(schedule meetings, ensure MOU/MOA project plans implementation). Monitor
and assess each ETD event's success, prepare reports and identify areas of
improvement. Manage the logistics related to printing and packaging of course
material (for face-to-face training) and delivery before the ETD intervention.
Monitor and replenish the stock levels of course material timeously and
efficiently. Ensure the distribution and completion of learner evaluation
questionnaires and feedback forms and submit to the relevant business unit.
Ensure the thorough completion of attendance registers and the prompt receipt
of reports from the panel of experts and higher education institutions (HEls)
subsequent to the educational and training development (ETD) intervention.
Quality assure physical and online documentation received from the Contact
Centre before co-ordination activities. Manage the quality of course materials
distributed in line with the approved specification before printing as well as
before dispatching clients. Undertake periodic site visits to ETD venues
(internally and externally) to ensure quality standards. Monitor the quality and
performance of service providers responsible for catering, venues, and printing
in line with the NSG policies and standards. Create awareness of NSG
Standards, to Departmental Coordinators. Provide support in the orientation of
contracted panel of experts and HEl's and assist in presenting on training
logistics matters. Manage and verify the accuracy of data capturing into the
system. Ensure quality of the ETD interventions into the system, through
continuous monitoring and in liaison with relevant programme managers.
Manage data integrity and security of learner personal information into the
system. Liaise with Learner Records after each ETD intervention for the issuing
of payments and certificates. Manage the resources (people, finance, systems,
assets) allocated within the sub-directorate. Implement operations
management within the sub-directorate, including determination of service
standards, standard operating procedures, business process management,
total quality management and digital transformation. Develop appropriate
strategies and plans for the achievement of performance targets and sub-
directorate requirements, including quarterly performance reporting. Identify
and manage strategic and operational risks within the sub-directorate, as well
as mitigation plans, including business continuity plans. Manage a team of
employees, who are expected to accomplish assigned duties in an efficient,
effective, and competent manner and to strive for improvement and excellence
in all work performed.
ENQUIRIES : Thabo Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 441 6108
APPLICATIONS : APPLY USING THIS LINK: APPLICATION FOR ASSISTANT DIRECTOR:
ETD COORDINATION REF NO: NSG 18/2026 – FILL OUT FORM
POST 28/53 : SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: NSG 19/2026
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A tertiary qualification at (NQF level 6) in Logistics Management, Purchasing
Management, Supply Chain Management or Commerce. Experience: one (1)
to two (2) years relevant experience in supply management. Knowledge: Public
sector legislation, relevant policies and applicable legislative frameworks
(including but not limited to: Public Service Act; Public Administration
Management Act; Public Finance Management Act. Treasury Regulations, and
SCM Practice Notes. Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act and
Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment. Microsoft Office suite, especially
Word, PowerPoint, and Excel. Administration of LOGIS and BAS systems.
Virtual meetings (organise, host, record, transcript). Meetings management
(scheduling, agenda setting, recording, minute taking, action plans). Document
management. Batho Pele principles. Skills: Oral and written communication
skills. Strong interpersonal skills. Good writing and presentation skills. Problem
solving skills. Operations management skills. Financial management skills.
Capabilities: Planning and organising. Programme and project management.
Problem solving and analysis. Client orientation and customer focus. Analytics
and research. Personal Attributes: Ability to multitask and organise, prioritise,
and follow multiple projects and tasks through to completion with attention to
58
detail. Ability to work independently while contributing to a team environment.
Commitment to quality and continuous learning. Professional behaviour and
sound judgement. Integrity and honesty; detail-oriented; creative and
innovative; ability to work under pressure. Travel and work with extended
hours, including away from office, may be required.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support in the development, implementation and
monitoring of supply chain management policies, frameworks, and practice
notes. Support supply chain management audit and compliance processes.
Conduct elementary research as required by the Director to support the
implementation and monitoring of supply chain policies, frameworks, and
practice notes. Support awareness and communication initiatives to empower
NSG officials on SCM matters. Provide general technical and administrative
advice to NSG officials, service providers and clients on SCM matters. Provide
support in the development and implementation of asset needs assessment,
asset acquisitions, operational and asset disposal plans. Ensure the
implementation of preferential procurement policy objectives. Ensure that
received assets are barcoded, accurate updating of the asset register and
monthly reconciliation with supporting documents. Plan and undertake the
assets verification, in stock counts, investigate and report on variances, make
necessary recommendations to resolve discrepancies. Provide support to
obsolescence planning or depreciation rates, management of losses, write offs,
redundant and disposal of assets, inventory, and consumables. Provide
administrative and secretariat support to the relevant committees related to
asset management, as may be required. Provide support in the development
and implementation of procurement needs assessment (including future
needs), acquisitions, and management. Assess the value of goods and
services to be procured, determine optimal acquisition process, commodity and
industry analysis, and request response from registered suppliers or activate a
bidding response. Compile and source requests for quotations for procurement
using the Central Supplier Database (CSD), undertake prescribed evaluation
processes, conduct appropriate clearance of the preferred bidder and facilitate
contractual bidding processes. Check completeness of documentation and
compliance against supply chain management principles and thresholds.
Provide support in the development of bidding documents in accordance with
relevant policies, including briefing sessions. Provide administrative and
secretariat support to the relevant committees related to acquisition and
demand management, including the Bid Committees, as may be required.
Prepare appointment letters, maintain, and update contract register and liaise
with relevant managers for contract management. Assist in the identification
and determination of irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Undertake all
aspects of warehouse management, stocktaking, including submission of
stocktaking reports per sub-inventory, compilation and updating of stock
inventories. Ensure that stock levels are determined, maintained, available
upon demand and that proper internal controls are in place. Undertake
verification of suppliers in line with applicable prescripts, accurate placement
of orders and updating of systems. Manage the performance of vendors,
including addressing instances of under- or non-performance against pre-
determined standards. Receive invoices from centralised system and forward
to relevant line managers. Ensure accurate and verified placement of orders,
and payment of suppliers within 30 days. Implement an effective document
control and filling systems. Ensure fair and equitable distribution of goods
across the NSG. Implement effective and efficient supply chain management
systems, including daily capturing, verification, and management on the LOGIS
and BAS systems. Ensure the effective monitoring and evaluation of supply
chain practices and processes. Maintain close working relationships with other
relevant units in the NSG and other key external stakeholders to ensure
efficient supply chain management. Administer project accounts (e.g., courier
and travel services) as may be determined. Implement effective operations
management. including service standards, standard operating procedures,
business process management. total quality management and digital
transformation. Provide monthly and quarterly inputs on financial and non-
financial performance of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Thabo Ngwenya Tel No: (012) 441 6108
APPLICATIONS : APPLY USING THIS LINK: APPLICATION FOR SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT PRACTITIONER REF NO: NSG 19/2026 – FILL OUT
FORM
59
ANNEXURE K
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
The Office of the Chief Justice is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling of vacant posts, the
objectives of section 195 (1)(i) of the Constitution of South Africa, 1996, the Employment Equity
imperatives as defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act55) of 1998) and the relevant Human
Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration and preference will be given to
Women, Persons with Disabilities and youth.
APPLICATIONS : National Office: Midrand: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Director: Human Resources, Office of the Chief Justice,
Private Bag X10, Marshalltown, 2107 or hand deliver applications to the Office
of the Chief Justice, Human Resource Management, 188, 14th Road,
Noordwyk, Midrand,1685.
Free State: Bloemfontein: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X20612, Bloemfontein, 9300 or hand deliver applications to the Free State High
Court, Corner President Brand and Fontein Street, Bloemfontein, 9301
KwaZulu-Natal: Durban: Quoting the relevant reference number, direct your
application to: The Provincial Head, Office of the Chief Justice, Private Bag
X54314, Durban, 4001. Applications can also be hand delivered to 1st Floor
Office No 118, CNR Somtseu & Stalwart Simelane Streets, Durban, 4000.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : All applications must be submitted on a New Z83 form, which can be
downloaded on internet at www.judiciary.org.za /
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp or obtainable from any Public Service
Department and should be accompanied by a recent comprehensive CV only;
contactable referees (telephone numbers and email addresses must be
indicated). Please send your documents in a PDF and put them in one folder.
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from Human Resources. All shortlisted candidates,
including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as
an additional criterion in the interview process. Applicants could be required to
provide consent for access to their social media accounts. Prior to appointment
for SMS, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela Programme:
Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as endorsed by DPSA
which is an online course, endorsed by the National School of Government
(NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name Certificate for entry
into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the following link:
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/. Each
application form must be fully completed, duly signed and initialed on both
pages by the applicant. The application must indicate the correct job title, the
office where the position is advertised and the reference number as stated in
the advert. Failure by the applicant to complete, sign and initial the application
form will lead to disqualification of the application during the selection process.
Applications on the old Z83 will, unfortunately, not be considered. Should you
be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be accompanied by an
evaluation considered. Suitable candidates will be subjected to a personnel
suitability check (criminal record, financial checks, qualification verification,
citizenship checks, social media, reference checks and employment
verification). Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If
you have not been contacted within three (3) months after the closing date of
this advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful. The
Department reserves the right not to make any appointment(s) to the
advertised post(s). Applicants who do not comply with the above-mentioned
requirements, as well as applications received late, will not be considered.
Failure to submit all the requested documents will result in the application not
being considered during the selection process. All successful candidates will
be expected to enter into an employment contract and a performance
agreement within 3 months of appointment, as well as be required to undergo
a security clearance three (3) months after appointment. The Office of the Chief
60
Justice complies with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), Act No. 4 of 2013. We will use your personal information provided
to us for the purpose of recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose
of the position/vacancy you have applied for. In the event that your application
was unsuccessful, the Office of the Chief Justice will retain your personal
information for internal audit purposes as required by policies. All the
information requested now or during the process is required for recruitment
purposes. Failure to provide requested information will render your application
null and void. The Office of the Chief Justice will safeguard the security and
confidentiality of all information you shared during the recruitment process.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/54 : REGISTRAR REF NO: 2026/92/OCJ
SALARY : R337 563 - R1 155 777 per annum (MR3-MR5), Salary will be in accordance
with Occupation Specific Dispensation (Resolution 1 of 2008). Shortlisted
candidates will be required to submit service certificate/s for determination of
their experience. The successful candidate will be required to sign a
performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State Division of The High Court: Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of an LLB Degree or a four (4) year legal
qualification. A minimum of two (2) years’ legal experience obtained after
qualification. MR3: LLB degree or equivalent qualification plus a minimum of 2
years post qualification experience in a legal profession (certificates of service
must accompany the application). MR4: LLB degree or equivalent qualification
plus a minimum of 8 years post-qualification experience in a legal profession
(certificates of service must accompany the application). MR5: LLB degree or
equivalent qualification plus a minimum of 14 years post-qualification
experience in a legal profession (certificates of service must accompany the
application). A valid driver’s license. Superior court/litigation experience and
supervisory experience will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of
Case Flow Management and legislative frameworks governing the Public
Service. Skilled in excellent communication (verbal and written), planning,
organising, problem solving, numeracy, conflict management, time
management along with the following attributes: Attention to detail,
professionalism, strong work ethics and ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Co-ordination of Case Flow Management and administrative support to the
judiciary, comply with court rules and all relevant prescripts, handling taxation
of bills of cost, manage the issuing of all processes and initiating of court
proceedings, co-ordinate appeals and reviews, attend to and execute requests
from the judiciary in connection with cases and case related matters, issue/sign
court orders/letters to attorneys/litigants on behalf of the court, keep/check and
analyse the court’s monthly, quarterly and annual statistics and monitor the
submission thereof, implement effective and efficient administration of court
files and records management, deal with the files in terms of the relevant codes
and legislation, prepare and present files for audit purposes, ensure the
submission of records for translation, attend/oversee to general public
queries/correspondences, attend to office management, planning and
organizing and manage staff and related HR processes.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. S.P Mathibeli Tel No: (051) 492 4523
HR Related Enquiries: Ms D.S.J Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/92/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 28/55 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK REF NO: 2026/93/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : Free State Provincial Service Centre, Bloemfontein
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of a Grade 12 certificate. No experience
required. National Diploma in Supply Chain Management / Economics /
61
Finance / Financial Management / Procurement / Logistics / Public
Management / or relevant qualification at NQF level six (06) as recognised by
SAQA will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Knowledge and skills: Basic knowledge of financial functions,
practices as well as the ability to capture data, operate computer and collate
financial statistics, basic knowledge and insight of the Public Service financial
legislation, procedures and Treasury regulations (PFMA, PSA, DFI),
knowledge of basic financial operating systems (BAS), basic knowledge of
work procedures in terms of the work environment, knowledge of Batho Pele
Principles. Skilled in communication (verbal and written), problem solving,
good public relations, monitoring and analytical skills, computer literacy (MS
Office), planning and organising, report writing and typing skills.
DUTIES : Capture invoices and creation of Creditor Payment Advises, verify all invoices
received, capture correct information on LOGIS which will be defaulted to the
Creditor Payment Advice, attach all the relevant prescribed documentation to
the Creditor Payment Advice, maintain a computerised or manual register of
all payments processed to track the status of such invoices, provide pertinent
information on the state of the department’s creditors to the relevant line
managers, maintain and update the Procurement Status Report with details of
the relevant transactions, render asset management clerical support, compile
and maintain records (asset records/ database), check and issue furniture,
equipment and accessories to components and individuals, identify redundant,
non-serviceable and obsolete equipment for disposal and verify asset register,
render demand and acquisition clerical support, carryout and implement
preference points system with appropriate goals per commodity in terms of
Preferential Procurement Policy objectives, provide secretariat or logistical
support during the bid consideration and contracts conclusion process, ,
distribute store items to the end-user in the absence of the responsible person,
process Purchase Orders (PO), verify if contract existing in a PO should be
placed for the item on contract, verify and capture source documents and place
the order with the supplier, draft Letters of Awards in cases of the unavailability
of LOGIS and other urgent circumstances, send properly signed purchase
orders in regard of all goods and service requests to suppliers, render and
record all procurement transactions, provide support in monthly reporting for
Supply Chain Management department, administer supply chain day-to-day
duties for procurement of goods and services, ensure proper filing, recording,
safe keeping of documents for audit purposes, administration of stores and
compile SCM reports on orders issued.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mr. T.J Diphoko Tel No: (051) 492 4617
HR Related Enquiries: Ms D.S.J Peters Tel No: (051) 492 4523
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/93/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 28/56 : REGISTRAR’S CLERK REF NO: 2026/94/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : KwaZulu-Natal Local Division of The High Court: Durban
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 12 certificate. No experience
required. A driver’s license will serve as an added advantage. All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
working procedures in terms of the working environment, knowledge of registry
processes and practice, knowledge of storage and retrieval procedures in
terms of the working environment, knowledge and understanding of legislative
frameworks governing the Public Service, knowledge of Filling system, Mail
procedure manual, promotion of access to information Act, National archives
and Batho Pele Principles. Skilled in computer literacy (Microsoft Office),
communication, numeracy, interpersonal, problem solving, analysing, time
management and administrative skills.
62
DUTIES : Perform clerical and administrative work within the court, register/ allocate case
numbers to all pleadings and court documents received, ensure that the files
have been served on all parties concerned, draw up files for the
litigants/Attorney, update the file of return service/s proof services, handle
court’s request files, retrieve the requested file and make the file available to
the requester, attend to queries from parties and members of the public, record
documents received, ensure systematical recording of court files, keep record
of requests received from litigants, render case management duties, attend to
case management and set down notice, implement case management
practices (placing request forms in the space of a file that has been requested,
complete and file the movement sheet), render case management duties,
monitor files and records as per the case Management, provide support with
administrative registrar, submit leave forms to HR for compliance, maintain and
keep all registers for filing and archiving, comply with the telephone prescripts
and leave policies, prepare and sign performance agreement timeously, safe-
keep and dispose of case records.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Mrs K Marais Tel No: (031) 492 5562
HR Related Enquiries: Ms SZ Mvuyana Tel No: (031) 4931723
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/94/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals.
POST 28/57 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK REF NO: 2026/95/OCJ
SALARY : R237 453 – R279 708 per annum (Level 05). The successful candidate will be
required to sign a performance agreement.
CENTRE : National Office: Midrand
REQUIREMENTS : Applicants should be in possession of Grade 12 certificate. No experience
required. A driver’s license will serve as an added advantage All shortlisted
candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other must be an
integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
Records Management, knowledge and understanding of Service Delivery
Improvement Programmes, knowledge and understanding of Batho Pele
Principles, knowledge and understanding of Strategic Planning. Skilled in good
communication (written and verbal), computer literacy (MS Office), good
interpersonal skills, time management, planning, organising, administration
skills, problem solving and good customer service.
DUTIES : Provide administrative and technical support to all strategic planning
processes: Provide logistical arrangements to all planning sessions, including
securing the venue, catering, electronic equipment, etc. Compile memos and
guidelines in preparation for all planning processes, provide support to the
development of OCJ Environmental Scan Report, provide support to the
process of coordinating the development of the OCJ Strategic, Annual
Performance, and Operational Plans, quality assure the submission of OCJ
Strategic, Annual Performance and Operational Plans. Provide administrative
and technical support to Service Delivery Improvement processes: Review
quarterly, annual SDC and SDIP reporting templates, develop and edit Draft
Service delivery improvement reports (SDC, SDIP, Batho Pele and Frontline
Service Delivery Monitoring reports), quality assure the submission of the
Service delivery improvement reports, keep up breast with the Service Delivery
Improvement processes. Compile monthly and quarterly performance reports
of the Strategy and Service Delivery Planning: Develop, edit, draft monthly and
quarterly reports for inputs in line with the Operational Plan, quality assure the
sourcing of all the required portfolio of evidence documents, upload relevant
Portfolio of evidence to the reporting system, ensure the submission of portfolio
evidence to relevant units. Provide clerical administrative support to the
Strategy and Service Delivery Planning unit: Liaise with internal and external
stakeholder engagement, update the records management system, keep
abreast of the SharePoint for filing and archiving purposes, provide ad hoc
administrative duties when required within the SSDP unit, ensure submission
and distribution of unit documents to business units, ensure a successful
logistical arrangement for travelling, meetings and workshops.
ENQUIRIES : Technical Related Enquiries: Ms P. Mahlangu Tel No: (010) 493 2501
HR Related Enquiries: Ms. S. Tshidino Tel No: (010) 493 8771
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be sent via email to 2026/95/OCJ@judiciary.org.za
63
NOTE : The Organisation will give preference to candidates in line with the
Employment Equity goals
64
ANNEXURE L
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATION
It is the intention to promote representivity in the Department through the filling of these posts. The
candidature of applicants from designated groups especially in respect of people with disabilities will
receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Applications quoting reference number must be addressed to Mr. Thabang
Ntsiko. Applications must be posted to Department of Public Service and
Administration, Private Bag X916, Pretoria, 0001 or delivered to 546 Edmond
Street, Batho Pele House, cnr Edmond and Hamilton Street, Pretoria, Arcadia
0083 or emailed.
CLOSING DATE : 25 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must quote the relevant reference number and consist of: A fully
completed and signed NEW Z83 form which can be downloaded at
www.dpsa.gov.za/dpsa2g/vacancies.asp.’’From 1 January 2021 should an
application be received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), it
will not be considered”, a recent comprehensive CV; contactable referees
(telephone numbers and email addresses must be indicated); Applicants are
not required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents
on application but must submit the Z83 and a detailed curriculum vitae (Only
shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified documents, all non-
SA citizens must attach a copy of proof of permanent residence in South Africa
on or before the day of the interviews). Foreign qualifications must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to
a technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and
interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences,
emotional intelligence, and integrity. Candidates will also be subjected to
personnel suitability checks on criminal records, citizen verification, financial
records, qualification verification and applicants could be required to provide
consent for access to their social media accounts. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. If you have not been contacted within
three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that
your application was unsuccessful. The successful candidate will be expected
to enter into an employment contract and a performance agreement within 3
months of appointment, as well as completing a financial interests declaration
form within one month of appointment and annually thereafter. Note: Prior to
appointment, a candidate would be required to complete the Nyukela
Programme: Pre-entry Certificate to Senior Management Services as
endorsed by DPSA which is an online course, endorsed by the National School
of Government (NSG). The course is available at the NSG under the name
Certificate for entry into the SMS and the full details can be sourced by the
following link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-
programme/.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/58 : DIRECTOR: LEGISLATION REF NO: DPSA 20/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
Annual progression up to a maximum remuneration package of R1 551 807
per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF Level 7 in Law, a Bachelor of Laws (LLB), or a
Bachelor of Procurationis (B. Proc). Minimum 5 years at a middle or senior
managerial level. Minimum 8 years’ experience in Legislative drafting. Admitted
as an Attorney or Advocate. Knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of
South Africa, Drafting conventions applicable in South Africa, Public
Administration and other relevant/related legislation. Strategic priorities of
65
Government. Must have sound understanding of operations management.
Must have an understanding of drafting Public Administration legislation
including bills and regulations. Must have managerial skills decision making,
problem solving, written and verbal communication, Stakeholder management
and coordination, Strategic thinking and leadership, analytical skills,
interpersonal relations, teamwork, confidentiality, financial management,
human resource management, research, change management and project and
program management. Generic skills: Diversity management, communication
and information management, interpersonal relations, facilitation, negotiation,
presentation, report writing, computer literacy and conflict management.
Technical skills: Legislative drafting, legislative processes and legislation
scrutiny.
DUTIES : To manage drafting of Public Administration legislation. Review legislation
administered by the Minister for the Public Service and Administration. Provide
legal advice on matters concerning public administration legislation. Manage
all the operations, systems, and processes of the directorate. Attend
departmental management structures and any other meetings as directed.
Participate in inter-departmental and intra-departmental committees, tasks,
and project teams as nominated.
ENQUIRIES : Adv. Mmasetshaba Matlou Tel No: (012) 336 1638
APPLICATIONS : E-mail your application to Advert202026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 28/59 : DIRECTOR: GENERAL BENEFITS REF NO: DPSA 21/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
Annual progression up to a maximum remuneration package of R1 551 807
per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate an appropriate B. Degree in Human Resources Management
and Development or equivalent qualification at NQF level 7. Minimum 5 years’
at a middle or senior managerial level with minimum 10 years appropriate
experience in Conditions of Service environment. Knowledge of Constitution of
the Republic of South Africa, Government legislative framework with specific
reference to employment legislation, Public Service legislative and policy
framework, Government programs such as the National Development Plan,
Key Strategic Priorities of Government and developing Prescripts for
Remuneration and General Benefits for the Public Service. General and
macro-Benefits theory and practice, Knowledge of general benefits in the
Public Service, Human resource management, Research and analysis and
Public Policy development and implementation. Decision making, Problem
solving, Written and verbal communication, Stakeholder management and
coordination, Strategic thinking and leadership, Analytical skills, Interpersonal
relations, Financial management, Human resource Management, Research,
Change management, Project and program management. Problem Solving
(conceptual thinking), Decision Making, Diversity management,
Communication and information management, Interpersonal relations,
Facilitation, Negotiation, Presentation, Report Writing, Computer Literacy and
Conflict management.
DUTIES : Manage the development of Prescripts in relation to General Benefits (leave of
absence, working time, PILIR, standby allowance, danger allowances,
sessional assistance, Foreign Service Dispensation, allowances for personnel
serving executive authorities, allowance for secretaries to a head of
department, night shift allowance, etc.). Manage the provision of
implementation support to departments. Manage the monitoring of
implementation and compliance. Manage the operations, systems and
processes of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Samson Radebe Tel No: (012) 336 1569
APPLICATIONS : E-mail your application to Advert212026@dpsa.gov.za
POST 28/60 : DIRECTOR: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT REF NO: DPSA 22/2026
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum (Level 13), (an all-inclusive remuneration package).
Annual progression up to a maximum remuneration package of R1 551 807
per annum is possible, subject to satisfactory performance. The all-inclusive
66
remuneration package consists of a basic salary, the state’s contribution to the
Government Employees Pension Fund and a flexible portion that may be
structured according to personal needs within a framework.
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A minimum qualification at NQF level 7 in Human Resources Management/
Public Management/ Public Administration/Industrial Psychology or related
qualification. Minimum 5 years’ at a middle or senior managerial level. Minimum
8 years’ experience in Performance Management environment. Knowledge of
Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, Government legislative framework,
Public Service legislative and policy framework, Government programs such
as the National Development Plan, Key Strategic Priorities of Government.
Managerial skills: Decision making, Problem solving, Written and verbal
communication, Stakeholder management and coordination, Negotiations,
Strategic thinking and leadership, Analytical skills, Interpersonal relations and
teamwork. Technical skills: Policy development, Human Resources
Management and Monitoring and Evaluation. Generic skills: Diversity
Management, Communication and Information management, computer
literacy and conflict management.
DUTIES : Manage the development of Prescripts for Performance Management. Develop
and review prescripts (policies, norms and standards, directives, circulars,
frameworks and guidelines) in line with the departmental standards and
submitted for approval by the relevant approval authority. Manage the provision
of implementation support to Departments. Manage the monitoring of
implementation and compliance. Manage all the operations, systems and
processes of the Directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Mpho Ntuli Tel No: (012) 336 1051
APPLICATIONS : E-mail your application to Advert222026@dpsa.gov.za
67
ANNEXURE M
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM
The Department of Tourism is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity (race, gender and disability) in the Department through the filling of these posts.
APPLICATIONS : Applications, quoting the relevant reference number, must be forwarded to the
attention of Chief Director: HR Management and Development at Department
of Tourism, Private Bag X424, Pretoria, 0001, or hand delivered at Tourism
House, 17 Trevenna Road, Sunnyside, Pretoria, or by email as provided.
CLOSING DATE : 25 August 2026 by 16:30, (Late applications will not be considered)
NOTE : Application must include a Z83 form and CV only. The electronic application
must be in PDF format and made up of a single document file. Indicate the
correct job title and the reference number of the post on the subject line of your
email. Applications quoting the relevant reference number must be submitted
on the new form Z83, obtainable from any Public Service Department or on the
internet at www.gov.za/documents. Received applications using the incorrect
application for employment (old Z83) will not be considered. Each post(s)
advert must be accompanied by its own application form for employment and
must be fully completed, initialled, and signed by the applicant as instructed
below. Failure to fully complete, initial, and sign the Z83 form will lead to the
disqualification of the application during the selection process. All fields of
Section A, B, C, and D of the Z83 must be completed in full. Section E, F, G
(Due to the limited space on the Z83, it is acceptable for applicants to refer to
their CV or see attached. However, the question related to conditions that
prevent re-appointment under Part “F” must be answered, and the declaration
signed. Only an updated comprehensive CV (with detailed previous
experience, if any) and a completed and signed new Z83 application form are
required. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies
of qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the
interview, following the communication from Human Resources, and such
qualifications (s) and other related documents (s) will be in line with the
requirements of the advert. Applicants in possession of foreign qualifications
must be accompanied by an evaluation report issued by the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) (only when shortlisted). Applicants who do not
comply with the abovementioned instructions/ requirements, as well as
applications received late, will not be considered. Correspondence will be
limited to shortlisted candidates only. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Candidates will further be subjected to a personnel suitability
check (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks, qualification
verification, and employment verification). Some of the interviewed candidates
for Senior Management level vacancies may be subjected to a 2-day
competency assessment that will test generic competencies. Appointment
validity will be conditional to signing of the employment contract, performance
agreement, and annual financial disclosure, and must attain a security
clearance (vetting) applicable to the post. The Department reserves the right
not to make an appointment. You are consenting to the Department of Tourism
processing your personal information, subject to POPIA, by applying for this
post.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/61 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS REF NO: DT 43/2026
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all-inclusive remuneration package consisting of a basic
salary, the State’s contribution to the Government Employees Pension Fund
and a flexible portion that may be structured according to the MMS
dispensation)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate NQF 7 qualification in Labour Relations or equivalent
qualification. Five (5) years’ experience in a labour relations environment of
which three (3) years must be at a supervisory level. A post graduate
qualification in labour relations will be an added advantage. Knowledge and
understanding of departmental policies and procedures, all labour laws
68
including LRA, BCEA and EEA. Ability to interpret and apply policies, strategies
and legislations. Knowledge of Public Service Regulations, Record
Management, the PFMA and Treasury regulations. Communication, analytical
and ability to liaise with different stakeholders at different levels. Emotional
intelligence and sound interpersonal relations skills. Proactive and innovative
as well as technical skills. A valid driver’s licence (Persons with disabilities that
prevent them from driving will still be considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for managing the registration of
grievances, appointment of investigating officers and facilitation of grievances;
managing investigations and conciliation or mediation meetings where
appropriate; analysing investigating officers’ reports and quality checking
submission for approval; managing the communication on the outcome of
grievances and aggrieved employees; ensuring that grievances are routed to
the Minister if the employee remained dissatisfied; managing records of receipt
of dispute referral forms and notices from Council or Commission; managing
the logistics of disputes scheduled for Conciliation and Arbitration; ensuring the
technical aspects of the disputes are considered; ensuring registration of
misconduct cases; providing short exposition of the process from drafting of
charges to conclusion of the case; taking instructions and ambit of instructions
in relation to the desired outcome of disciplinary hearings; assisting counsel at
arbitration proceedings; managing the appointment of investigators, initiators
and presiding officers; managing investigations into allegations misconduct
and compiling reports; managing the formulation of charges of misconduct;
ensuring the internal approval process is followed following receipt of the
presiding officer’s reports; managing the communication on the outcome of the
disciplinary hearing; overseeing the capturing of disciplinary outcomes on
PERSAL; overseeing the processing of referred harassment cases; overseeing
the implementation of the outcome decisions of the Financial Misconduct
Committee (FIMICO); quality checking submissions to the Minister or his/her
delegate if appeal has been lodged; managing the coordination of DBC’s;
managing secretarial services during task team meetings, bi-laterals and multi-
laterals; ensuring that the relevant documents are available timeously and
complete; ensuring that a mandate is received from the relevant authorities;
complying with directives from Council, CCMA or Court to avoid interest costs;
identifying technical aspects of the disputes; preparing rescission, variation of
awards and reviewing applications to challenge awards and court judgements
as and when required; providing objective and unbiased opinion and advising
the department and employees on interpretation and application of rights in the
collective agreements; identifying areas within the department requiring
employee relations training; listening to employees’ complaints and creating an
atmosphere conducive to allowing for constructive discussion; monitoring
employee relations trends in terms of collective bargaining internally (DBC) and
externally (Council); providing written or oral advice to management and
officials; monitoring the parties compliance with the LRA, Rules of Council
and/or any other law regulating collective agreement engagements; ensuring
that parties do not consult on salaries and other conditions of employment in
respect of employees at the DBC; advising the employer representing team on
options like caucus in order to minimise disruptions to DBC normal work.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Dreyer Tel No: (012) 444 6543
APPLICATIONS : E-Mail: Recruitment4326@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine the suitability of a person for employment NB: EE Requirements:
Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth and People with
Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 28/62 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CLAIMS NON-CAPITAL INCENTIVES REF NO: DT
44/2026
SALARY : R487 197 per annum (Level 09)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A recognised NQF Level 6 qualification in Finance, Business Administration/
Economics. 3-4 years’ relevant working experience in the appropriate
environment in the private or public sector, of which 2 years should be on a
senior practitioner level or equivalent. Knowledge of the PFMA. Knowledge of
the Tourism Act. Knowledge of Public Sector Regulations. Knowledge of
Treasury Regulations. Understanding of the National Tourism Sector Strategy
and the Tourism Growth Partnership Plan. Project management skills.
69
Stakeholder management skills. Interpersonal and presentation skills.
Numerical skills. Planning and organising skills. Knowledge of incentives will
be an added advantage. A valid driver’s licence (persons with disabilities that
prevent them from driving will still be considered).
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for acknowledgement of claims;
screening claims by applying programme guidelines, rules and policies;
evaluating complete claims; preparing payment advices; submitting claims at
finance for payment processing; collection of stubs/ proof of payment; compile
list of monthly cancellations of claims; compiling and submitting weekly and
monthly workload statistics report; managing the database and updating
payments on a daily basis, compiling the Travellers list of approved enterprises;
communicating to approved enterprises to confirm airport departure;
requesting quotations for flight and accommodation through the department’s
travel agency; preparing visit authorisation enterprises and submit to the
Department’s travel office; verify travel vouchers and send to the approved
enterprises; collecting post intervention reports from the beneficiaries after the
submission of claims upon their return from the event; collecting the six-months
Impact Analysis Report from beneficiaries following the supported event;;
following up on the outstanding post intervention and six months Impact
Analysis Report; verifying information collected through the post-intervention
report and six-month’s Impact Analysis Report; compiling and consolidating the
interim financial statement and monthly TIP consolidated financial reports;
assisting with reconciliation of travel and accommodation invoices against
payments to the Department’s travel agency; providing inputs to the monthly
consolidated commitments, accruals and expenditure reports; reconciling
approved enterprise claims, travel and accommodation against BAS reports
and report discrepancies found to the Supervisor; providing inputs to the
quarterly and annual TIP implementation reports; assisting with implementation
of the Memorandum of Agreement for the Tourism Grading Support
Programme (TGSP); ensuring transfers to the implementer are done timeously
upon receiving the request; verifying the information on the TGSP report and
annexures and generating a report; drafting the annual meeting schedule;
attending and providing secretariat duties during meetings; checking
completed MASP files and archive with Records Management; update
information and documents on EDMS; ensuring all claims are recorded and
filed accordingly after approval; respond to verbal and written client’s queries,
enquiries and referrals; liaising with internal and external stakeholders, meet
walk in clients; marketing TIP incentives provincially; attending and
participating in stakeholder awareness workshops and meetings; conducting
site visits on a quarterly basis; identifying areas of improvements on the MASP
guidelines and assisting to develop processes and material to ensure that
readiness to introduce the revised guidelines.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Kekana Tel No: (012) 444 6333
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment4426@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine the suitability of a person for employment. EE Requirements:
Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth and People with
Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
POST 28/63 : HUMAN RESOURCE UTILISATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT
CLERK REF NO: DT 45/2026
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 (Senior Certificate) or equivalent qualification. Knowledge of
registry duties, practices, as well as the ability to capture data and operate
computer. Working knowledge and understanding of the legislative framework
governing the Public Service. Computer literacy. Planning and organising skills.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Interpersonal skills. Teamwork.
Flexibility. HR experience would be an added advantage. A valid driver's
license.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will be responsible for providing administrative
support for internal and external bursary scheme; receiving and processing
tuition fee claims, prescribed book claims and related documentation; verifying
student accounts and confirming previous payments where repeat modules are
involved; preparing tuition payment requests and submit them to Finance within
prescribed timeframes; maintaining accurate records of bursary beneficiaries
70
and related documentation; providing registry, document management and
general administrative support; preparing, photocopying, scanning, binding
and distributing documents for training, induction, orientation and other HRD
programmes; receiving, distributing and tracking official correspondence;
maintaining an effective filing and records management system; ensuring
confidential disposal of documents through approved shredding processes;
providing general administrative support to the Directorate; maintaining Human
Resource Development databases and records; capturing and maintaining
learner information on the HRD database; updating databases relating to
internships, bursaries, Workplace Skills Plan (WSP) training interventions,
induction and orientation programmes; producing accurate reports and
statistics information when required; maintaining electronic and manual
records of all HRD interventions; coordinating training logistics and supporting
the implementation of learning interventions; arranging training venues and
logistical requirements; coordinating learner registration and attendance
confirmations; preparing attendance registers and training material; conducting
pre-course administrative activities; monitoring attendance during training
interventions; administering training evaluation forms and compile evaluation
reports; arranging transport and other logistical requirements where applicable;
liaising with training providers and internal stakeholder regarding training
arrangements; providing administrative support to the internship programme;
assisting with the administration and placement of interns within the
Department; coordinating induction and orientation programmes for interns;
maintaining intern records and monthly internship reports; supporting the
implementation of internship development programmes; monitoring
compliance with internship administrative requirements; providing
administrative support for Performance Management and Development
System; receiving records and filing performance agreements and
performance assessment documentation; performing quality assurance on
submitted PMDS documents; monitoring compliance with PMDS submission
timeframes; compiling reports on outstanding and non-compliant submissions;
maintaining accurate filling and record management of all PMDS
documentations.
ENQUIRIES Ms N Buthelezi Tel No: (012) 444 6149
APPLICATIONS : Email Application: Recruitment4526@tourism.gov.za
NOTE : Short-listed candidates will be subjected to screening and security vetting to
determine the suitability of a person for employment. EE Requirements:
Coloured Male and White Male candidates as well as Youth and People with
Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
71
ANNEXURE N
DEPARTMENT OF TRADITIONAL AFFAIRS
It is the Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through the filling of
positions with a candidate whose transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity in line with
the numeric targets as contained in the department’s Employment Equity plan. Whites, Coloured,
Indians, youth and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged to apply.
APPLICATIONS : Please forward your application for the above position via post to: Director
General, Private Bag X22, Arcadia, Pretoria, 0183 or hand-delivery: 509
Pretorius Street, Pencardia 1 Building, 2nd Floor, Arcadia or email at
DTARecruit202616@cogta.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Director: Human Resource Management
CLOSING DATE : 25 August 2026
NOTE : The successful candidate’s appointment will be subject to a security clearance
process and the verification of educational qualification certificates.
Applications must quote the relevant reference number and must be completed
on the New Z83 form obtainable from any Public Service department and
signed when submitted. From 1 January 2021 should an application be
received using the incorrect application for employment (Z83), the application
will not be considered. Only shortlisted candidates will submit relevant
documents. Applicants should submit CV and Z83 only. Shortlisted candidates
will be required to submit certified copies a day before the interview date. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Persons with a disability are
encouraged to apply. It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
and to provide proof of such evaluation only when shortlisted. Incomplete
applications or applications received after the closing date will not be
considered. It is important to note that it is the applicant’s responsibility to
ensure that all information and attachments in support of the application are
submitted by the due date. Due to the large number of responses anticipated,
correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you have not
been contacted within three months of the closing date of the advertisement,
please accept that your application has been unsuccessful. The department
reserves the right not to fill the advertised position.
OTHER POST
POST 28/64 : ACCOUNTING CLERK: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 2026/16
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 Certificate with Accounting/Mathematics as a passed subject. A
Degree or National Diploma in Accounting/Business Administration or
equivalent with accounting as a passed subject will serve as an added
advantage. A valid drivers licence. Generic competencies: Finance, problem
solving and client orientation and customer focus. Technical competencies:
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Treasury Regulations, general
ledger reconciliation and analysis, Knowledge of travel and subsistence, Basic
Accounting System (BAS) and PERSAL System.
DUTIES : The successful candidate will perform the following duties: Capturing,
reconciling and ensuring that payments are made within 30 days. Responsible
for all queries in respect of BAS and PERSAL payments. Responsible for the
reconciliation of monthly IRP5 and ensure timeous payments to the South
African Revenue Services and other third parties for statutory deductions.
Liaising with clients and resolving queries related to payments. Maintenance
and clearing of salary suspense account. Responsible for accounts receivable,
accounts, journalise, reconciliations, and prepare payments. Handling of salary
claims as well as the clearance of all suspense accounts and payments
enquiries and payments from other departments. Assist with month-end
closure processes. Assist with provision of source documents/payment
batches to Auditor-General and Internal Audit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr L Motlhabedi Tel No: (012) 065 3440
72
ANNEXURE O
NATIONAL TREASURY
The National Treasury is an equal opportunity employer and encourages applications from persons living
with disabilities. It is the department’s intention to promote representivity through filling these posts in
line with the department’s approved Employment Equity Plan. Our buildings are accessible to persons
living with disabilities.
APPLICATIONS : To apply visit: https://erecruitment.treasury.gov.za/eRecruitment
CLOSING DATE : 25 August 2026 at 12:00 pm (Midday)
NOTE : Effective from 7 April 2021, the National Treasury now utilises an e-Recruitment
System which means all applicants must login/register to apply for positions,
we only accept hand delivered/posted applications should an applicant prove
that he/she tried to apply via e-Recruitment with no success and the National
Treasury ICT unit was unable to assist. The applicant’s profile on the e-
Recruitment is equivalent to the newly approved Z83, and it is the responsibility
of applicants to ensure their profiles are fully completed or their applications
will not be considered, as per the DPSA Practice Note. Certain documentation
will still be required to be uploaded on the system such as copies of all
qualifications including National Senior Certificate/Matric certificate, ID, etc.,
however these documents need not be certified at point of application, however
certification will be required prior to attending the interview. Please note: All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. It should be noted that the
National Treasury does not support the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in any
of its recruitment and selection processes and will disqualify an application if it
picks up the use of AI when completing assessments without acknowledging
the source of information. Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service
SMS Pre-entry Programme as endorsed by the National School of
Government, available as an online course on
https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/, prior to
finalisation of appointment, is a requirement for all SMS positions. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. All qualifications, criminal and SA citizenship checks will be conducted
on all short-listed candidates and, where applicable, additional checks will be
conducted in line with the new DPSA Directive effective 01 April 2024. Please
note that by responding to our advertisement/s, you consent to the collection,
processing, and storing of your Personal Information for internal HR processes
in accordance with the Protection of Personal Information Act (POPIA), Act No.
4 of 2013. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by
policies, only for a specific period, of which the submitted documents will then
be destroyed as legislated in the National Archives Act. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to have all their foreign qualifications (this includes O and A level
certificates) evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), at
your own expense. Upon appointment, successful candidates will be required
to disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and to sign a
Performance Agreement within 3 months from date of appointment and for
candidates whose appointment exceeds 12 calendar months will be appointed
on probation for the period of twelve (12) calendar months excluding leave
taken as prescribed by Public Service Regulation 68. The status of your
application will be visible on the e-Recruitment system. However, if you have
not received feedback from the National Treasury within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Note: The
National Treasury reserves the right not to fill the below-mentioned posts,
withdraw or put on hold a position and/or to re-advertise a post. All queries
must be submitted via email addressed to the Human Resources Recruitment
Support Team on Recruitment.Enquiries@treasury.gov.za. Kindly note that all
National Treasury adverts published/LIVE on the eRecruitment System have a
73
closing date listed and closing time of 12h00 (Midday) on that closing date. The
system is designed to automatically remove the advert from public view at
exactly 12h00 (Midday) of the said closing date for that post. There are no other
means to submit applications post the closing date and time, if you have missed
or delayed in submitting on time.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/65 : DIRECTOR: DATA GOVERNANCE REF NO: S092/2026
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To develop and manage data governance frameworks, ensuring that
data quality, compliance, security, and effective data management practices
are implemented and adhered to.
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (Incl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 coupled with minimum Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF Level
7) in Computer Science or Economics or Data Science or Information
Management or related qualification. A minimum 5 years’ experience at a
middle/senior managerial level obtained in data governance, management and
compliance. Experience in the formulation and managing of data governance
frameworks, policies and practices. Knowledge of data governance
frameworks (e.g., DAMA-DMBOK), data privacy regulations (e.g. POPIA), and
data quality standards. Knowledge and experience with data management
tools and metadata management platforms. Successful completion of the
Nyukela Public Service Senior Management Leadership Programme as
endorsed by the National School of Government available as an online course
on https://www.thensg.gov.za/training-course/sms-pre-entry-programme/,
prior to finalisation of an appointment.
DUTIES : Data governance framework and policy development: Develop and implement
a comprehensive data governance and management framework, including
policies, standards, and procedures. Define data ownership, stewardship roles,
and accountability across the organisation. Establish a Data Governance
Committee to drive adherence to data policies and facilitate decision-making.
Define and track key data governance metrics to measure the effectiveness of
data governance initiatives. Lead data governance and data management
related to the MzansiXchange. Data and metadata management: Implement
and oversee master data management processes to ensure consistency and
accuracy of critical data entities. Establish a data catalogue to classify National
Treasury data assets. Implement metadata management practices. Ensure
that data catalogue and metadata are continuously updated. Data quality
management and improvement: Establish data quality metrics, standards, and
processes to ensure data accuracy, completeness, consistency, and reliability.
Develop appropriate techniques for data verification, profiling, cleaning, and
monitoring techniques to maintain high data quality. Collaborate with data
stewards and divisions to identify data quality issues and drive corrective
actions. Stay updated on emerging trends, technologies, and best practices in
data governance and data management. Lead initiatives to adopt new tools
and technologies that enhance data governance capabilities. Data compliance,
security, and risk management: Ensure compliance with data privacy laws and
regulations (e.g., POPIA) and industry standards. Identify potential data risks
and develop strategies to mitigate them, including data access controls and
encryption Collaborate with the IT and cybersecurity teams to ensure data
security protocols are integrated into the data governance framework.
Stakeholder engagement: Train and educate stakeholders on data governance
best practices, data ownership, and compliance requirements. Engage internal
and external stakeholders on new developments pertaining to data
governance, compliance, security and risk management and their impact on
the management of data in the National Treasury. Represent National Treasury
on inter-governmental and other external forums and committees related to
data governance. Establish relationships with key government departments,
research and international organisations to advance data governance
functions.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
74
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/66 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: BAS & LOGIS OPERATIONS REF NO: S090/2026
Division: Office of The Accountant-General (OAG)
Purpose: To support and maintain transversal financial management systems
and enabling technologies (including current and future solutions) in
compliance with applicable legislation, policies, standards and procedures.
SALARY : R605 742 per annum (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 is required, coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent
to NQF Level 6) or Bachelor’s. Degree (equivalent to NQF level 7) in
Information Technology, Information Systems, or Business Analysis; A
certification in Project Management will serve as an added advantage. A
minimum of 3 years’ experience obtained in an application, system support, or
operations environment. Experience in transversal financial management
systems operations and support processes (incident, problem solving, change
and release management). Experience in Project Management (IT Systems
Implementation). Knowledge and experience of the public-sector financial
framework and end-user support in a multi-stakeholder environment.
DUTIES : Systems Operations & Modernisation: Assist in the evaluation of policy
requirements and user specifications for National and Provincial Government
Departments. Assist with planning and implementation of proposed and new
initiatives, e.g. modernisation, configuration, patching and upgrade for the
enhancement of financial system capabilities (e.g., General Ledger, Reporting
and Analytics). Validate that the implemented functionality meets business
requirements prior to deployment. Coordinate change and release activities for
new system enhancements and support user access (user provisioning,
role/profile maintenance and access reviews) in accordance with security and
segregation-of-duties requirements. Develop and maintain standard operating
procedures, user guides, knowledge articles and support documentation to
promote consistent, high-quality service delivery. Evaluate Financial Systems
Competencies: Assist in conducting policy research in conjunction with
stakeholders, e.g. Office of the Accountant General, CPO and DPSA, etc.
Assist in collaborating policy initiatives with other technical experts and
evaluate inputs in alignment with system requirements. Log, coordinate and
monitor incidents, service requests and problems; support root-cause analysis
and implement approved corrective and preventive actions. Provide functional
and operational support for transversal financial management systems in
accordance with agreed service levels and governance processes. Financial
Management Systems Accessibility: Assist in providing percentage availability
of the system during peak processing times. Assist in integrating measure to
enable system to recover data lost during operations downtimes. Assist in
conducting policy research in conjunction with stakeholders, e.g. Office of the
Accountant General, CPO and DPSA, etc. Stakeholder Engagement: Assist in
developing communication circulars regarding new system functionalities,
updates and implications to users. Assist in coordinating Annual User Forums
and attend other Stakeholder Forums when necessary. Support business
readiness, stakeholder engagement, defect resolution and post-
implementation validation. Ensure stakeholder communication,
implementation readiness and successful deployment within approved
timeframes. Assist in developing intervention strategies and assist users.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
POST 28/67 : PERFORMANCE AUDITOR REF NO: S091/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Division: Office of The Director-General (ODG)
Purpose: To assist with audit of performance information engagements and
performance audits by evaluating management measures for resources
acquired economically and utilised efficiently and effectively in the execution of
prescribed audit processes and procedures.
SALARY : R413 001 per annum, (Excl. benefits)
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Grade 12 coupled with a minimum National Diploma (equivalent to NQF
Level 6) or Bachelor’s Degree (equivalent to NQF Level 7) in Internal Audit/
Accounting. A minimum of 2 years’ experience in an Internal Audit environment,
75
of which a part of the experience must be in the Performance audit and
Performance information field. Experience in performance audit and
Performance information audit processes and procedures is required. Sound
knowledge of Performance Audit and Performance Information Audit
processes, procedures and methodology are required.
DUTIES : Audit Planning: Provide inputs to the development of performance audit
notification letters. Perform preliminary surveys on planned performance audit
and audit of performance information engagements. Gather background
information on identified performance audit and audit of performance
information. Initiate interview sessions in preparation of performance audit and
audit of performance information engagements and analyse disseminated
information. Identify symptoms and assist with the development of audit
objectives and criteria for engagement. Audit Execution: Assist with the
development of an audit program for implementation. Test procedures as per
the prescribed performance audit and audit of performance information
programme. Determine root causes to address management measures that
are lacking or inadequate. Complete work papers and draw conclusions from
test results. Audit Reporting: Draft informal audit queries as per the prescribed
performance audit methodology. Confirm the findings and the impact of risk
ratings of performance audit and audit of performance information findings with
clients and draft recommendations on root causes. Assist with compiling draft
audit report. Follow up audit of Performance Audits. Follow up on previous
performance audit findings. Perform performance audit reviews through tests
and observations. Evaluate and capture action plans instituted by management
to rectify identified inadequate management measures. Assist with completion
of findings register to be reported to Audit Committee.
ENQUIRIES : enquiries only (No applications): Recruitment.Enquries@treasury.gov.za
76
ANNEXURE P
DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be submitted online on the following link:
https://erecruitment.dws.gov.za/
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : Other related documentation such as copies of qualifications, identity
documents, driver’s license etc need not to accompany the application when
applying for a post as such documentation must only be produced by
shortlisted candidates during the interview date in line with DPSA circular 19 of
2022. With reference to applicants bearing professional or occupational
registration, fields provided in Part B on the online Z83 must be completed as
these fields are regarded as compulsory. Failure to complete or disclose all
required information will automatically disqualify the applicant. No late
applications will be accepted. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to
suitability checks (SAQA verification, reference checks criminal and credit
checks). SAQA evaluation certificate must accompany foreign qualifications
(only when shortlisted). Applications that do not comply with the above-
mentioned requirements will not be considered. All shortlisted candidates for
SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and interview. Following
the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates
will undergo psychometric assessments to assess cognitive capabilities,
behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and integrity. A pre-entry
certificate obtained from the National School of government is required prior to
the appointment. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake
two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Candidates
will be required to complete a financial disclosure form and undergo security
clearance. Foreigners or dual citizenship holders must provide a police
clearance certificate from country of origin (only when shortlisted). The
Department of Water Sanitation is an equal opportunity employer. In the filling
of vacant posts, the objectives of section 195 (1) (i) of the Constitution of South
Africa, 1996 (Act No: 108 of 1996) the Employment Equity imperatives as
defined by the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act No: 55 of 1998) and relevant
Human Resources policies of the Department will be taken into consideration.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only. If you do not
hear from us within three (3) months of this advertisement, please accept that
your application has been unsuccessful. Faxed applications will not be
considered. The department reserves the right not to fill these positions.
Women and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply and preference
will be given to the EE Targets.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/68 : CONTROL ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIST GRADE A (CIVIL) REF NO:
240826/01
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
Sd: Water Resources Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance
SALARY : R958 776 per annum, (all-inclusive OSD salary package)
CENTRE : Gqeberha/ Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor of Technology (BTech) in Civil Engineering as recognised by SAQA.
A minimum of six (6) years’ post-qualification experience as an Engineering
Technologist/Technician. Compulsory registration with the Engineering Council
of South Africa (ECSA) as a Professional Engineering Technologist. The
disclosure of a valid Code B unexpired driver’s licence (except for persons with
disabilities). Demonstrated experience in infrastructure condition assessment,
project management, design and analysis of water-related infrastructure,
preparation of procurement documentation and site supervision of construction
works. Proven practical experience in mentoring graduate interns and
facilitating training and development. An understanding of ECSA professional
mentorship requirements will be an added advantage. Sound knowledge of
contract administration and project management, with proven ability to interpret
and review technical drawings and designs. Understanding of public sector
77
procurement processes and financial planning and management principles.
Knowledge of applicable legislation, including the National Water Act, Water
Services Act, environmental legislation, and the Public Finance Management
Act (PFMA). Familiarity with standard forms of contract used in infrastructure
projects. Strong communication, conflict management, dispute resolution, and
negotiation skills. Proven ability in computer aided design software with special
emphasis on ability to work with Autodesk Revit. Problem solving and decision-
making skills are essential as well as the ability to work in multi-disciplinary
teams. Willingness to work outside normal working hours and to travel
extensively throughout the Eastern and Western Cape Provinces.
DUTIES : Manage technical services in conjunction with engineers, technologists,
technicians and maintenance personnel. Ensure safety in terms of statutory
and regulatory requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard
drawings and procedures to incorporate new technology. Ensure the quality of
technical designs with specifications and authorise/make recommendations for
approval by the relevant authority. Manage projects in terms of best practice
and policy requirements. Undertake condition assessments of infrastructure
and update the relevant databases and produce detailed reports on
assessment results. Prioritise infrastructure rehabilitation projects based on
condition assessments. Undertake analyses and designs of rehabilitation
solutions. Produce the necessary design reports, drawings and specifications.
Supervise rehabilitation work on site. Manage, supervise and control technical
and related personnel and assets. Research studies on technical engineering
technology to improve expertise, liaise with relevant bodies/councils on
engineering related matters. Mentor candidate technicians. Lend support to
strategic and business planning, financial management, human resource
management and general office management of the section.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. G Daniell Tel No: (041) 508 9706)
POST 28/69 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REF NO: 240826/02
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Northern Operations
Dir: Operations Northern
SALARY : R932 292 per annum (Level 11), (all-inclusive salary package)
CENTRE : Hartbeespoort Cluster Office
REQUIREMENTS : A bachelor’s degree or relevant qualification at NQF Level 7 in Financial
Management. Five (5) years relevant experience in Financial Accounting at
supervisory/management (ASD) level. Knowledge and understanding on
human resource management legislation, policies, practices and procedures.
Knowle and understanding of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA),
treasury regulations and guidelines. Knowledge of public service anti-
corruption strategy and anti-corruption and fraud prevention measures.
Knowledge of equal opportunities and affirmative action guidelines and laws.
Knowledge of administrative clerical procedures and systems. Understanding
of departmental policies and procedures, government financial systems,
principles and practice of financial accounting. Understanding of framework for
managing performance information. Knowledge of business strategy
transaction and alignment. Problem solving and analysis. People diversity
management. Client orientation and customer focus. Excellent communication
skill (both verbal and written). Accountability and ethical conduct.
DUTIES : Manage the financial revenue, expenditure management, supply chain
management and accounting sub-directorate. Monitor the policy and legislative
framework to ensure that cognisance is taken of new developments. Develop
and maintain policies and processes. Monitor revenue collected, expenditure
incurred, submits reports and plans as required. Monitor compliance with
financial prescripts. Provide advice and guidance to role players on revenue
and expenditure procedure. Undertake revenue, expenditure management and
accounting work as required. Revenue management-Ensure that cashier,
banking, debt management, monitoring and reporting services are rendered.
Expenditure management-Ensure that payment for compensation of
employees, goods and services, transfers, subsidies and reporting are
efficiently and effectively performed. Accounting-To provides financial
administration and accounting services (legal/journals, accounting and
reporting, interim and annual financial statements). Manage the sub-
directorate revenue, expenditure management and accounting. Maintenance
of discipline. Management of performance and development. Undertake
Human Resource and other related administrative functions. Establish,
78
implement and maintain efficient and effective communication arrangements.
Develop and manage the operational plan of the sub-directorate and report on
progress as required. Develop, implement and maintain processes to ensure
proper control of work. Compile and submit all required administrative reports,
serve on transverse task teams as required. Procurement and asset
management for the Directorate. Planning and allocate work, Quality control of
work delivered by employees. Conduct strategic tariff determination
assessments, utilising macroeconomic variables to design sustainable, legally
compliant pricing structures for cluster services. Functional technical advice
and guidance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr TG Monaisa Tel No: (012) 200 9000
POST 28/70 : ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN PRODUCTION GRADE A-C REF NO:
240826/03
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: MP
Cd: Provincial Operations: Mpumalanga
Sd: Infrastructure Development and Maintenance
SALARY : R407 337 – R435 066 per annum, (OSD), (Offer will be based on proven years
of experience)
CENTRE : Mbombela
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Engineering or relevant qualification. Three (3) years
post qualification technical engineering experience. Compulsory registration
with the Engineering Council of South Africa (ECSA) as an Engineering
Technician. The disclosure of a valid unexpired driver’s license. Knowledge and
experience in project management, technical design and analysis.
Understanding of research and development. Computer aided engineering
applications. Problem solving, decision making, teamwork, creativity, customer
focus and responsiveness. Good communication skills (both verbal and
written).
DUTIES : Render technical services to the directorate. Assist engineers, technologist and
associates in the appraisal of business plans and technical reports. Monitor the
implementation of Infrastructure projects such as Regional Bulk Infrastructure
Programme (RBIG) and Water Services Infrastructure Grant (WSIG) through
conducting site inspections; site meetings; compilation and submission of
progress reports. Promote safety in line with statutory and regulatory
requirements. Evaluate existing technical manuals, standard drawings and
procedures to incorporate new technology. Evaluate technical designs with
specifications and submit approval by the relevant authority. Perform
administrative and related functions. Provide inputs into the budgeting process
as required. Compile and submit expenditure reports as required. Verify and
certify invoices for payment of contractors and public service providers.
Maintain proper records and documentation for all projects to enable a clean
audit. Provide and consolidate inputs to the infrastructure development
operational plan. Develop, implement and maintain databases. Research and
development. Continuous professional development to keep up with new
technologies and procedures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Matiso, Tel No: (013) 759 7330 / Ms FM Mkhwanazi, Tel No: (013) 759
7515 / Ms PC Ngwamba, Tel No: (013) 759 7446 / Mr E Pinga Tel No: (013)
759 7575
POST 28/71 : COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OFFICER REF NO: 240826/04
Branch: Water And Sanitation Services Management: EC
Cd: Provincial Operations Eastern Cape
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : King Williams Town
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma in Human Sciences. One (1) to two (2) years’ experience
in water and sanitation stakeholder management, education and awareness,
hygiene, community development and project management. The disclosure of
a valid unexpired driver’s license (candidates should be able to drive).
Knowledge of community development work, skills, attitudes and values of
communities. Knowledge and understanding of human behaviour and social
systems and legislation to assist with interventions at the points where people
interact with their environments in order to promote self-empowerment.
Knowledge and understanding of basic financial management. The ability and
competence to co-ordinate community development structures and ability to
79
manage projects. The ability to influence individuals and groups to participate
in their own self-empowerment ventures. The understanding of social
dynamics of communities. Problem-solving, facilitation, research and
presentation skills. Computer literacy. Good communication skills both (verbal
and written).
DUTIES : Identify and facilitate the implementation of integrated community development
interventions in partnership with the community and other relevant
stakeholders. Liaise and co-ordination with all relevant role players,
stakeholders, internal and external to facilitate collaboration and to establish
partnerships to ensure sustainability of development actions within the
community. Support communities and perform administrative support on
community development and related activities. Keep up to date with new
developments in the community development field to enhance service delivery.
Provide institutional support and social facilitation to infrastructure
development. Conduct hygiene awareness campaigns to schools and
communities. Assist sanitation unit with procurement of promotional materials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Mosome Tel No: (043) 604 5569
POST 28/72 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: 240826/05
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07)
CENTRE : Gqeberha/Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : A National Diploma or Degree in Public Management or Administration. One
(1) to Three (3) years’ experience in administrative matters. The disclosure of
a valid unexpired driver’s license. Experience in the environmental
management sector will be an added advantage. Knowledge of administrative
procedures. Basic financial management and knowledge of PFMA. Basic
knowledge of the National Water Act, National Environmental Management Act
and other environmental legislations and policies. Computer literacy. Client
orientation and customer focus. Good communication skills (both verbal and
written), report writing, and organisational skills. People and diversity
management. Accountability and ethical conduct. Problem solving and
analysis.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support to all personnel in the Integrated Environmental
Engineering Component. Assist with administration and coordination of
environmental compliance, access and use of government waterworks, related
environmental programs and land administration. Maintain records and support
information management relating to land rights Administration. Implement and
maintain administrative procedures. Administer procurement processes for the
component in accordance with departmental and SCM prescripts. Maintain
records on goods and services procured for the component. Provide accurate
statistics. Maintain a register of the component. Coordinate travel, logistics and
administrative support for meetings, site visits and stakeholder engagements.
Compile submissions and administrative reports as delegated by the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Ms S Mapapu Tel No: (041) 508 9718
POST 28/73 : SUPPLY CHAIN CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: 240826/06
Branch: Finance Main Account
Cd: Supply Chain Management
Dir: Asset Management
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Pretoria Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/Grade 12 certificate. National Diploma (NQF 6), in Accounting/
Financial Management/ Logistics Management/ Supply Chain Management
will serve as an added advantage. Current Enrolment in Internship in
Finance/Supply Chain Management will serve as an added advantage. Special
requirements (Skills needed) Knowledge of the PFMA, Asset Management
Framework and Treasury Regulations. Proficiency in Microsoft, Office suits,
Excel. Good communication skills both (Verbal and Written). Co-ordination,
planning and organisational skills. Flexibility, teamwork and interpersonal
relationship skills, Problem solving and maintain discipline.
DUTIES : Perform quarterly asset count, Conduct Bi –annual physical verification of
movable assets. Ensure that all movements of assets are updated. Ensure that
80
the Asset Register is regularly updated. Update inventory lists. Receiving of
new assets and barcoding. Updating of leased assets register. Assist in
disposal and losses of assets. Willingness to work cooperatively with others as
a team and good communication skills. Perform other activities as required to
achieve the goals of Department of Water and Sanitation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Woko Tel No: (012) 336 8982
POST 28/74 : FINANCE CLERK PRODUCTION REF NO: 240826/07
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Port Elizabeth
REQUIREMENTS : A Senior/ Grade 12 certificate with accounting as a passed subject. Basic
knowledge of financial functions, practices as well as the ability to capture data,
operate a computer and collate financial statistics by use of spreadsheets.
Basic knowledge and insight into the Public Service Financial legislation,
procedures and treasury regulations (PFMA, DORA, PSA, PISR, PPPFA,
Financial Manual). Knowledge of financial operating systems such as PERSAL
and SAP. Good communication skills. Accountability, integrity, honesty and
ethical conduct. Must be able to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Responsible for compiling, checking and capturing payroll allowances on
PERSAL e.g. Subsistence and Travel claims, overtime, standby and payroll
deduction transactions. Liaise with third party with regards to court
maintenance orders to submit and implement. Distribute pay slips plus
supplementary pay slips to officials and submit signed pay point certificates to
head office. Attend payroll enquiries. Receive vendor invoices and keep
accurate register. Liaise with different sections regarding source documents.
Compile source documents and capture invoices to pay vendors on SAP.
Ensure that creditors are paid within 30 days. Perform Creditors Reconciliation.
Compile Payables and Accruals reports. Be responsible for Cashier’s
functions. Safekeeping of cash and checking of Petty Cash issued. Replenish
Petty Cash when required. Attend to vendor enquiries. Scan paid invoices onto
SAP. Perform cashier duties, receiving and issuing receipts and banking of
cash. Perform petty cash transactions. Order and distribute stationery. File all
face value documents systematically and complete. Attend to audit samples
and ensure compliance.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Z Tototo Tel No: (041) 508 9734
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area
POST 28/75 : MAINTENANCE VEHICLE OPERATOR REF NO: 240826/08 (X3 POSTS)
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R201 093 per annum (Level 04)
CENTRE : Uitkeer / Somerset East
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 4. The disclosure of a valid Code EC /EC1 (or equivalent)
unexpired driver’s license with valid PDP. Certified competency /operating
certificate or relevant heavy plant/ machinery. At least five (5) years’ experience
in driving heavy motor vehicles and operating heavy equipment. Traffic and
road safety regulations. Mechanical knowledge of heavy vehicles and
machinery. Occupational Health Safety (OHS). Basic knowledge of
departmental transport policies and procedures. Basic record keeping and
reporting procedures. Good Communication skills both (verbal and written).
Attention to details and alertness. Problem solving in operational
environments. Ability to work under pressure and in adverse weather/site
conditions. Integrity and discretion.
DUTIES : Responsible for conducting quality assurance of driver/operator systems.
Operate specialised plant/ equipment. Implement best practice of
driver/operator systems. Responsible for daily roadworthy inspections.
Responsible for ensuring that vehicles are serviced on time. Analyse logistics
operations. Transportation of work teams and materials/ equipment. Collection
of goods at suppliers and department stores. Maintenance of registering
department and pickups. Function in accordance with applicable legislative
requirements. Detect and repair minor mechanical problems on the vehicles/
equipment and take steps to have it repaired. Routine maintenance of
equipment. Routine inspection of visible defects around the exterior of the
81
equipment and vehicles. Attend to special requests. Recording of daily trips,
fuel and fluids levels. Periodic checks on vehicles maintenance standards.
Ensure that the place is clean, where equipment is kept avoiding fire hazards.
Adherence to Safety and procedures: ensure the safekeeping of equipment
and vehicles. Assist with maintenance work at gauging stations. Assist with
refurbishment and construction work at gauging stations. Assist the technical
personnel with special tasks.
ENQUIRIES : SF Cannon Tel No: (042) 243 6100 / (063) 500 6215
POST 28/76 : GENERAL WORKER REF NO: 240826/09
Branch: Infrastructure Management: Southern Operations
Dir: Operations Southern
SALARY : R144 024 per annum (Level 02)
CENTRE : Mthatha
REQUIREMENTS : ABET qualification. Experience in performing manual work will serve as an
added advantage. Knowledge of general work in handling equipment and
appliances. Basic knowledge of chemical use (dilution/mix) chemical product
knowledge. Basic knowledge daily maintenance procedures for efficient
machine/equipment performance. Basic in knowledge supporting water
utilization and water resource strategy. Basic knowledge of health and safety
procedures. Basic knowledge of garden maintenance. Basic understanding of
Government legislation. Communication skills and ability to work in a team.
Must be punctual, productive, and loyal. Must be able to work in or near rivers,
dams, and canals.
DUTIES : Clean and maintain grounds, canals etc. Assist in repairing tools and structures
such as building, fences, canals areas and benches using hand and power
tools. Mix spray or spread fertilizers using hand or automatic sprayers or
spreaders. Provide proper upkeep of sidewalks, driveways, parking lots,
planters, and other ground features. Maintain existing grounds / gardens by
caring for sod, plants, and trees. Rake and mulch leaves irrigate plants and
lawns. Sweep walkways, grounds, and clean buildings by sweeping and
washing floors.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Boyce, Cell No: (083) 412 1966
NOTE : Preference will be given to candidates from the geographical area
82
ANNEXURE Q
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN, YOUTH AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The mandate of the Department is to lead on socio-economic transformation and implementation of the
empowerment and participation of women, youth and persons with disabilities through mainstreaming,
advocacy, monitoring and evaluation.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are urged to submit the applications using this URL
https://recruitment.dwypd.gov.za/ General enquiries may be brought to the
attention of Mr Zuko Bebula Tel No: (012) 359 0417/ Mr Joseph Mahlangu Tel
No: (012) 359 0238
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026 at 16:00
NOTE : All fields in the Z83 application form on https://recruitment.dwypd.gov.za/ must
be completed in full, in a manner that allows a selection committee to assess
the quality of a candidate based on the information provided in the form. It is
therefore prudent that fields be completed by applicants and signed, noting the
importance of the declaration. South African applicants need not to provide
passport numbers. Candidate must respond “Yes “or “No “to the question
whether you are conducting business with the state. If “Yes”, details thereof,
only shortlisted candidates will submit the Declaration form for conducting
business with the state when shortlisted for the application. It is acceptable for
applicant to indicate “not applicable” or leave a blank to the question “In the
event that you are employed in the Public Service, will you immediately
relinquish such business interest?” Applicants are not required to submit copies
of qualifications and other relevant documents, but must submit the completed
and signed Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. The communication from HR of
the Department regarding the requirement for certified document will be limited
to shortlisted candidates. Therefore, only the shortlisted candidates for a post
will be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the
interview, following communication from HR. Applications received after the
closing date will NOT be considered or accepted. Correspondence is limited to
short-listed candidates only; should you not hear from us within six weeks of
the closing date, please consider your application unsuccessful. Non-RSA
citizens/permanent resident permit holders must submit a copy only when
shortlisted. Should you be in possession of a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). Should you not hear from the Department within three (3)
months of the closing date of the advertisement, please consider your
application to be unsuccessful. The Department reserves the right not to fill
and/or make an appointment to any of the advertised posts. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability
based on the post’s technical skills that are generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Further, personnel suitability
checks, including security vetting, competency assessment will be conducted,
as such transfer/promotion/appointment will made subject to positive outcomes
of personnel suitability checks. Successful candidates shall be required to
enter into performance agreement within three (3) months of assuming their
duties in the Department, and within one (1) month of the date of their
appointment conclude the prescribed contract of employment. Designated
employees shall be required to disclose their financial interest within 30 days
after assumption of duty. Appointments will only be made on the first notch of
the advertised salary level. Note that in terms of the Protection of Personal
Information Act, 2021, the Department will ensure the protection of applicants
‘personal information and only collect, use and retain applicants’ personal
information for the purposes of recruitment and selection processes. The
Department shall safeguard such personal information against access by
unauthorised persons, unlawful disclosure, or breaches. The Department is an
equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. In the filling of these posts,
It is the intention of the Department to promote representivity in the Public
Service through the filling of this position and the candidature of persons whose
transfer/promotion/appointment will promote representivity will receive
preference as the objectives of section 195 of the Constitution of the Republic
83
of South Africa and the Employment Equity Act, 1998 (Act 55 of 1998) will be
taken into consideration
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/77 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: RESEARCH, AND KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT REF
NO: DWYPD/010/2026
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum (Level 14), fully inclusive remuneration package
CENTRE : Pretoria
REQUIREMENTS : A Bachelor’s Degree (NQF level 7) qualifications in Social Sciences, Policy,
Research, Knowledge Management, Economics, Development Studies, or a
related field. A postgraduate degree (NQF 8 and above) in Policy, Research,
Knowledge Management, Economics, Development Studies, or a related field
shall be an added advantage. Certificate of successful completion of National
School of the Government’s SMS Pre-Entry programme prior appointment. A
minimum of 5 years’ experience in research, policy development and analysis
or knowledge management experience at a senior management level; Skills:
Research and analytical skills, Report writing skills, Communication skills
(written and verbal), Computer skills, Programme and Project Management
Skills, Strategic Planning, Financial Management, Change Management;
knowledge; Research coordination, Policy development, analysis and
evidence synthesis, Stakeholder engagement and negotiation, Knowledge
management systems. Personal Attributes. Ethical behaviour; honesty and
Integrity; Emotional Intelligence; Passion and Achievement driven; Ability to
work under pressure; Ability to maintain confidentiality of information; Respect
for copyrights/ aversion to plagiarism.
DUTIES : Provide strategic leadership and manage the development and implementation
of policy, research and knowledge management strategies, plans and product;
Lead the strategic positioning of policy, research and knowledge management
in support of the Department’s mandate on women, youth and persons with
disabilities, Develop and manage the Chief Directorate’s strategic and
operational plans, annual targets, performance indicators and reporting
obligations, Ensure alignment of the Chief Directorate’s work with the
Constitution, MTDP, NDP, GRPBMEAF, NSP on GBVF, departmental APP and
relevant departmental and sector priorities, Provide evidence-informed
strategic advice to the Minister, Director-General, Deputy Director-General and
departmental governance structures, Ensure that outputs of the Chief
Directorate strengthen mainstreaming, institutionalisation and accountability
for women, youth and persons with disabilities priorities across government.
Lead the development of a research agenda and manage research
undertakings on the transformation and rights of women, youth and persons
with disabilities; Lead the development and periodic review of a national and
departmental research agenda on women, youth and persons with disabilities,
manage the design, commissioning, implementation and quality assurance of
research studies, evaluations, evidence reviews and analytical reports, ensure
that research methodologies are rights-based, ethical, credible, scientifically
sound and appropriate for public policy use, promote the use of disaggregated
data, including sex, age, disability, geography and other relevant variables
where available, manage local, regional and international benchmarking on
empowerment, inclusion, equality and transformation. Ensure that research
findings are translated into practical recommendations for policy, planning,
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation. Lead policy analysis, evidence synthesis
and the development of policy knowledge products to support departmental
and intergovernmental decision-making; Lead policy analysis on matters
affecting women, youth and persons with disabilities, manage the development
of policy briefs, discussion documents, analytical notes, status reports, Cabinet
inputs, parliamentary inputs and technical advisory products, ensure that
departmental policy positions are evidence-based, constitutionally grounded
and aligned with applicable national, regional and international obligations,
analyse the implications of government policies, plans, budgets and
programmes for women, youth and persons with disabilities, provide technical
input into policy formulation, policy review, impact assessment and
implementation monitoring processes, ensure that evidence from research,
monitoring and evaluation is used to inform policy advice and executive
decision-making. Manage knowledge management systems, repositories,
evidence-use products and dissemination mechanisms; Lead the development
84
and implementation of a knowledge management strategy for the Department,
manage systems for collecting, organising, storing, protecting and
disseminating institutional knowledge, research outputs and evidence
products., establish and maintain knowledge repositories, databases,
dashboards, learning platforms and evidence-use mechanisms, ensure that
departmental knowledge products are accessible, credible, current and useful
for decision-making, promote a culture of knowledge-sharing, learning and
evidence use across the Department and relevant stakeholders, manage the
translation of research and policy analysis into user-friendly products such as
briefs, summaries, presentations, learning notes and executive reports.
Coordinate strategic partnerships with government departments, Chapter 9
institutions, academia, research institutions, civil society and international
partners; Build and manage strategic partnerships to strengthen policy,
research, evidence generation and knowledge management, coordinate
engagements with national departments, provinces, municipalities, public
entities, Chapter 9 institutions, academia, research councils, civil society and
development partners, represent the Department in technical committees,
research forums, policy platforms, intergovernmental structures and
knowledge-sharing forums, facilitate collaboration on studies, policy analysis,
data sharing, capacity-building and evidence-use initiatives, ensure that
partnerships advance the Department’s mandate and protect the credibility,
independence and integrity of departmental evidence products. Manage
stakeholder inputs into research, policy and knowledge products, ensuring that
contributions are properly considered and documented. Manage human,
financial and other resources in line with the PFMA, Treasury Regulations,
Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations and departmental delegations,
Manage the Chief Directorate’s human resources, budget, assets,
procurement inputs, operational risks and performance obligations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Dire Segatlhle Tel No: (012) 359 0394
NOTE : Preference will be given to women, youth and persons with disabilities from
African males, Coloured (female and male)
85
ANNEXURE R
PROVINICIAL ADMINISTRATION: EASTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
APPLICATIONS : Applications can be submitted via hand delivery/courier to following addresses:
Dora Nginza Regional Hospital - Hand deliver/courier to: Human Resource
Office, Room DG71, Admin Building 1st Floor, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital,
Spondo Street, Zwide, Gqeberha, 6201. Enquiries: Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041)
406 4421.
Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital – Hand deliver/courier to: Human
Resource Office, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital, 71 Nelson Mandela
Drive, Mthatha 5099. Enquiries: Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be posted on the new Z83 Form, a comprehensive CV,
indicating three reference persons: Name and Contact Numbers, and a
relationship with reference. Applicants are only required to submit a Z83 form
and a comprehensive CV. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will
be required to submit certified documents (copies of Qualification(s) inclusive
of Matric certificate, Identity document, Proof of registration, proof of citizenship
if not RSA citizen) on or before the day of the interview following communication
from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. Applicants
must note that further Personnel Suitability checks will be conducted on short-
listed candidates and that their appointment is subject to the outcome of these
checks which include security clearance, security vetting, qualification
verification and criminal record checks. Reference checks will be done on
nominated candidate(s). If you have not been contacted by the Department of
Health within three (3) months of the closing date of the advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. We thank all applicants for their
interest. People with disabilities are encouraged to apply for these posts.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/78 : DEPUTY MANAGER NURSING REF NO:
ECHEALTH/DMN/DRH/APL/01/08/2026
SALARY : R1 069 215 - R1 219 323 per annum, (OSD), (an all-inclusive package), basic
salary consists of 70% or 75% of total package, salary package will be
structured according to Middle Management Service guidelines.
CENTRE : Nelson Mandela Metro, Dora Nginza Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification Diploma/Degree in Nursing or equivalent qualification
that allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse General. Minimum
of 9 years after registration as a Professional Nurse, at least 4 years’
appropriate recognizable experience must be at Management Level.
Demonstrate advanced understanding and application of Nursing legislation
and related legal and ethical nursing practices. Knowledge of PFMA, HR
Management. Knowledge of Public Sector Legislation and relevant
Prescript/Regulation, Batho Pele Principles and patient Right Charter. Strong
leadership, good interpersonal relations, effective problem-solving,
management and decision-making skills. Good verbal and written
communication skills are essential requirements. A valid driver’s license.
DUTIES : To manage and provide strategic Nursing leadership and direction to the
Nursing Services. Plan and monitor the objectives of the specialised unit in line
with the strategic plan of the institution and the department. Coordinate and
maintain conducive/constructive working relationships with Nursing and other
stakeholders. Ensure compliance with professional and ethical practice.
Monitor and ensure nursing care is practised in accordance with the statutory
law, policies and procedures governing the Nursing Profession, Labour and
Health Care. Effective management and utilisation of Human and Material
Resources. Ensure effective implementation of PMDS. Monitor compliance to
Quality Assurance and Infection Control and Occupational Health and Safety
standards and National Core Standards Compliance. Ensure efficient and
effective execution of administration functions of the Nursing unit.
ENQUIRIES : Ms B Bomela Tel No: (041) 406 4421
86
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Busisiwe.Bomela@echealth.gov.za
POST 28/79 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALTY (INTENSIVE CARE UNIT)
REF NO: ECHEALTH/AMN-ICU/NMAH/APL/01/08/2026
SALARY : R785 568 – R884 940 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/degree in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as a Professional Nurse. A
post-basic nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited
with the SANC in Intensive Nursing Science. Registration with SANC as
Professional Nurse. A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. At least 6 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/ recognisable experience in the specific specialty after obtaining
the 1-year post-basic qualification in the relevant specialty. At least 3 years of
the period referred to above must be appropriate/ recognisable experience at
management level. Ability to work in a multi-disciplinary team. Knowledge of
PFMA, Batho Pele Principles, Patient Rights Charter and other relevant legal
framework, Labour Relations and Public Service Acts. Managerial and
communication (both written and verbal), report writing and problem-solving
skills. Knowledge of six key priority areas, ability to work under pressure. A
valid driver’s license. Computer Literacy.
DUTIES : Demonstrate in in-depth knowledge of relevant prescripts as well as
understanding of the legislative’s framework governing Public Service. Ensure
that the clinical nursing practice by the team is rendered in accordance with the
scope of practice and nursing standards as determined by the relevant health
facility. Promote quality of nursing care as directed by professional scope of
practice and standards determined by the health facility. Demonstrate a basic
understanding of HR and Financial policies and practices. Demonstrate in
depth understanding of nursing legislation and related legal and ethical nursing
practices and how it expects a service delivery. Demonstrate knowledge of
National Care Standards and in reporting and monitoring of indicators. Ensure
that the environment complies with Health and Safety Act and Infection
Prevention and Control Policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
POST 28/80 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING SPECIALTY (PEADIATRICS) REF NO:
ECHEALTH/AMN-PEADS/ NMAH/ARP/NTSG/01/08/2026
SALARY : R755 355 – R863 667 per annum, (OSD)
CENTRE : OR Tambo District, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Basic R425 qualification (i.e. Diploma/Degree in Nursing) or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse plus
post-basic nursing qualification, with duration of at least 1 year, accredited with
SANC in terms of Government Notice No R212 in Advanced Paediatrics
Nursing Science. A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable experience
in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 6 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the one-year post-basic
course/qualification in the relevant speciality. At least 3 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience at
management level. Knowledge of nursing care procedures, Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : To ensure a holistic approach in the delivery of nursing care to
customers/clients in cost effective, efficient & equitable manner. Overall
supervision/management of the nursing services & maintain constructive
working relations with nurses & other stake – holders. Participate in the
analysis, formulation & implementation of nursing guidelines, standards &
procedures. Monitor & ensure proper utilization of financial & physical
resources. Utilize information technology and other management information
systems to manage nursing information for the enhancement of service
delivery: Advocate and ensure the promotion of nursing ethos and
professionalism.
87
ENQUIRIES : Ms Calaza Tel No: (047) 502 4469
APPLICATIONS : must be submitted electronically via email to:
Nozidumo.Calaza@echealth.gov.za
88
ANNEXURE S
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: GAUTENG
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT
Department of Environment is an equal opportunity employer and intends to promote equity through
filling of these posts. Candidates whose appointment / promotion will promote the achievement of
employment equity within the department will receive preference, in particular designated groups
(coloured’s, Indians, whites and persons with disability.)
APPLICATIONS : To apply for the below positions, please submit your application online at
http://professionaljobcentre.gpg.gov.za or send an email @
GDENVrecruitment@gauteng.gov.za quoting the relevant reference number
applications must be submitted on the New Z83 form obtainable from any
Public Service Department or on the internet at www.gov.za/documents
FOR ATTENTION : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364– Recruitment
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026. Applications received after the closing date will not be
considered.
NOTE : Applications with the Old Z83 form will not be considered. A New Z83 form must
be fully completed, duly signed and initialed by the applicant. A recent,
comprehensive CV, specifying all qualifications and experience, with
respective dates must accompany the application form. Applicants are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified
copies of qualifications obtained and other related documents on or before the
day of the interview, following communication from Human Resources and will
be subjected to verification by the South African Qualifications Authority.
Candidates in possession of a foreign qualification must also provide an
evaluation certificate issued by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA), at own expense. Failure to submit the requested documents will result
in the application not being considered further. Due to the anticipated large
volume of responses, correspondence will be limited to shortlisted candidates
only. All shortlisted candidates shall undertake two pre-entry assessments.
One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on
the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other will be an integrity
(ethical conduct) assessment. After the pre-entry assessments, an oral
interview will be conducted. Suitable candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability checks (criminal record, citizenship, credit record checks,
qualification verification and employment verification). By responding to the
advertisement, applicants consent to the collection, processing and storing of
their Personal Information in accordance with the Protection of Personal
Information Act (POPIA) Act No. 4 of 2013. Candidates will therefore be
required to give consent in terms of the POPI Act in order for the Department
to conduct the verifications. Information will be used for the purpose of
recruitment only and more specifically for the purpose of the position/vacancy
you have applied for and will not be shared with third parties without prior
consent, unless required by law. All applicants must declare any conflict or
perceived conflict of interest and must disclose membership on Boards and
directorships associated with. If you have not been contacted within six (6)
months of the closing date, please accept that your application was
unsuccessful. The submitted CVs will be destroyed as legislated in the National
Archives Act. In the event that your application is unsuccessful, the Department
will retain your personal information only for audit purposes as required by
policies. All the information requested now or during the process is required for
recruitment purposes. Failure to provide the requested information will result in
your application not being considered further. The Department reserves the
right not to make an appointment to the advertised post(s). The successful
candidate must disclose particulars of all registrable financial interests and sign
an employment contract within one month from the date of assumption of duty.
A Performance Agreement must be concluded and signed within three months
from the date of assumption of duty. Notes for applicants of SMS posts:
Successful completion of the Nyukela Public Service SMS Pre-entry
Programme as endorsed by the National School of Government, available as
an online course on https://thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/sms-pre-entry-
programme/, prior to the finalisation of the appointment, is a requirement for all
SMS positions. All shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a
technical exercise and interview. Following the technical exercise and
interview, a maximum of three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric
89
assessments to assess cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences,
emotional intelligence, and integrity.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/81 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL: ENVIRONMENT REF NO: REFS/050134
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply.
SALARY : R1 885 710 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus post graduate qualification (NQF level 8) in Environmental
Science/Management/Natural Science/Business Management/Administration
recognized by SAQA. 8 years relevant experience at a senior managerial level.
Valid driver’s licence. Competencies: Knowledge of Departmental policies and
procedures and Government priorities. Understanding of government standard
administrative procedures, Knowledge and understanding of PFMA, Treasury
Regulation, PSA, PSR, Labour relations etc. Reporting procedures,
Information system, SA Constitution and Employment Equity Act,1998.
Interpreting and Evaluating Information, Organizing/maintaining information,
communicating information, Computer Literacy, Listening and negotiation, Tact
and diplomacy, Discipline, Financial Management. Attributes: Committed,
Initiative, Objective, Logical, Proactive and resourceful, Flexible/change
orientated, Credible, Loyal and friendly, open-minded, Responsible and
accountable. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under pressure and
meet deadlines. Ability to work in a team and independently. Strong
Management skills. Problem Solving and conflict management, People
Orientated, Verbal and written communication.
DUTIES : Manage the rendering of reactive compliance and enforcement services.
Manage compliance monitoring and enforcement services. Manage and
administer the provision of compliance, monitoring and enforcement regarding
national environmental management biodiversity act. Manage the
implementation of environmental impact mitigation to promote sustainable
development and a safe healthy environment. Manage the promotion of
sustainable development of quality of life by promoting acceptable ambient air
quality and manage hazardous substances and other related anthropogenic
activities. Manage the implementation of waste management strategies and
waste information systems, issue waste authorizations, support local
government to render appropriate waste management. services and promote
waste minimization in Gauteng. Render administrative support to
environmental management services. Empower communities to manage
natural resources through job creation, skills development and awareness
opportunities. Ensure and manage the integration of environmental policy,
planning and coordination services. Promote the conservation and sustainable
utilization of the province's biological diversity to the benefit and upliftment of
the quality of life. Manage and provide biodiversity scientific services. Render
administrative support to biodiversity management services. Oversee and
ensure discipline. Assess the performance of management. Consolidate and
manage of budget for executive support directorate. Authorise, control and
monitor the budget and expenditure.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
POST 28/82 : CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER: FINANCE REF NO: REFS/050139
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs)
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) as recognised by
SAQA in the field of Financial Management. A minimum of five (5) years
relevant experience at a senior managerial level. CA qualification will be an
added advantage. A valid driver’s licence. Competencies: Strategic Capacity
and Leadership skills, People Management, Empowerment and Integrity,
Financial Management, Change Management, Programme and project
Management. Technical Competencies: Advanced financial and analytical
90
skills and innovativeness. Adequate financial management and extensive
knowledge of Supply Chain Management in the Public Service. Strong
managerial and communication skills (written and verbal). Thorough
knowledge of the Financial Prescripts of the Public Service and Supply Chain
Management. Attributes: Good interpersonal relations. Ability to work under
pressure and meet deadlines. Ability to work in a team and independently.
Strong Management skills. Problem Solving and Analysis, Client Orientation
and Customer Focus, Communication.
DUTIES : Ensure effective compilation of accurate financial statements. Manage revenue
efficiently and effectively by developing and implementing appropriate
processes. Ensure that internal procedures and control measures are in place.
Compile and accurate departmental annual budget, MTEF budget, and
maintaining effective standard chart of accounts for the department. Provide
value adding report to management and external stakeholders timeously.
Monitor the operation of accounting systems, controls and procedures to
ensure the integrity of financial information and administration. Monitor the
provision of financial reporting processes and provide recommendations and
advice to address significant variances. Ensure proper financial reporting
requirements as required in terms of financial management legislation such as
PFMA, Treasury Regulations, DORA etc. Provide and oversee the overall
management and monitoring regarding supply chain compliance. Manage the
provisioning of asset management services. Manage the provisioning of
logistical and transport services. Manage and facilitate the demand, acquisition
and contract management. Manage and conduct compliance Audit. Coordinate
and facilitate forensic investigation. Facilitate the conducting of performance
Audits. Provide support service to the internal Audit committee. Follow up on
the Audits queries. Research and keep abreast of breast practice initiatives and
developments within the directorate. Develop business/ strategic plan for the
directorate and align it with the Chief Directorate and ensure implementation
thereof. Oversee the development and implementation of operational plans for
the chief directorate. Manage the development and coordination of service
delivery improvement plan. Oversee and ensure provision of coaching,
disciplining and mentoring of staff to improve performance. Manage the
performance of staff and ensure assessment of their performance. Consolidate
and manage of budget in the chief directorate. Authorise, control and monitor
the budget and expenditure. Manage the compilation of various reports and
statistics. Manage leave in the chief directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
POST 28/83 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT REF NO:
REFS/050140
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification in Law, Environmental Law, Natural
Science or relevant qualification (NQF level 7) within the related field as
recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years relevant experience at a
senior managerial level within compliance and monitoring sector. Experience
in the field of Environment. Valid driver’s licence. Competencies: Knowledge of
Environmental Management, Environment, Management authorization
support, Environmental impact Assessment regulations, Environmental
management systems, Understanding of Environmental Management issues
in relation to authorizations as well as applicable legal requirements and
processes. Understanding of government standard administrative procedures,
Proven Leadership and Management, Coordination skills, Organisational and
planning, Relationship Management, Stakeholder engagement, Programme
and Project Management, Financial Management, Change management.
Knowledge Management, Service Delivery Innovation (SDI Problem Solving
and Analysis, People Management and Empowerment, Client Orientation and
Customer Focus, Innovative and proactive. Attributes: Good interpersonal
relations. Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Ability to work in
a team and independently. Strong Management skills. Problem Solving and
Analysis, Client Orientation and Customer Focus, Communication.
91
DUTIES : Manage and provide strategic leadership to the Chief Directorate and
contribute to the relevant programmes and responsibilities within the Chief
Directorate. Oversee the management and provision of reactive compliance
and enforcement services. Oversee the provision of compliance monitoring
and enforcement services. Manage and administer the provision of
compliance, monitoring and enforcement with regard to national environmental
management biodiversity act. Ensure effective management of teams and
programmes within the department that monitor and promote compliance with
environmental legislation across the different environmental sectors, including
waste and pollution, air quality and biodiversity management Monitor and
promote compliance with the National Environmental Management Biodiversity
Act (NEMBA) 2004 and other related regulations. Oversee resources (Human,
Financial, Equipment/Assets)
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
POST 28/84 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT SERVICES
RREFS/050135
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply
SALARY : R1 554 696. per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Public Management
/ Administration / Human Resource Management / Industrial Psychology or
relevant qualification as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of five (5) years
relevant experience at a senior managerial level in corporate services
environment. Valid driver’s license. Competencies: Knowledge of
Departmental policies and procedures and Government priorities, Knowledge
and understanding of PFMA, Treasury Regulation, PSA, PSR, Labour relations
etc. Reporting procedures, Information system, SA Constitution and
Employment Equity Act,1998. Interpreting and Evaluating Information,
Organizing/maintaining information, communicating information, Computer
Literacy, Listening and negotiation, Tact and diplomacy, Discipline, Financial
Management. Attributes: Committed, Initiative, Objective, Logical, Proactive
and resourceful, Flexible/change orientated, Credible, Loyal and friendly, open-
minded, Responsible and accountable. Good interpersonal relations. Ability to
work under pressure and meet deadlines. Ability to work in a team and
independently. Strong Management skills. Problem Solving and conflict
management, People Orientated, Verbal and written communication.
DUTIES : Oversee the provision of legal services in the Department. Manage and
oversee the provision of information communication and technology. Manage
and monitor the provision of security and facilities services. Ensure the
provision of effective and efficient communication services, marketing,
stakeholder relations and event management services. Provide strategic
direction and oversee the management of human resource management and
human resource development. Manage the resources of the Chief Directorate
(Human, Financial, Equipment/Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
POST 28/85 : DIRECTOR: RISK ANTI-CORRUPTION & INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REF
NO: REFS/050136
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus an undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Risk Management
or related field as recognised by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years relevant
experience at middle or senior management level in Risk management
environments. a valid driver’s licence. Competencies: Leadership,
Management, Planning, Organizing, People management, Service Delivery,
Communication, Decision Making, Problem solving, Report writing, Teamwork,
Risk management, Customer management, Innovation/continuous
improvement, Analytical, Negotiations, Computer literacy, Project
management, Flexible. Knowledge of Departmental policies and procedures,
92
Government Priorities, Risk management policies and frameworks, Reporting
procedures, Information system, SA Constitution, Employment Equity
Act,1998. Ability to Interpret & Evaluate Information, Verbal and written
communication, Organizing/maintaining information, communicating
information, Computer Literacy, Problem solving and conflict management,
Listening and negotiation, Tact and diplomacy, Teamwork, Discipline, Financial
Management. Business acumen, Team Leader, Strategist, Flexible/Change
oriented, Problem-solving ability, Responsive, Interpersonal relations,
Customer focus, Loyal and friendly, Open-minded, Responsible and
accountable.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of enterprise risk management services. Conduct
strategic risk assessment. Conduct operational risk assessment. Develop and
review the risk management strategy. Coordinate monthly progress reporting
against the risk register. Develop and monitor the organisational risk
management plan. Ensure training of risk officials and risk committee
members. Prepare monthly and quarterly reports for risk management
committee. Develop and review organisational risk management policy.
Manage the implementation, development and monitoring of business
continuity plans. Establish BCP governance structures. Develop policies and
standards related to disaster recovery. Ensure that business continuity plans
are in place. Ensure alignment with regulatory requirements. Promote the
implementation of code of conduct and ensure ethical environment. Develop,
implement and maintain policies, procedures and systems. Identify risk and
threats related to ethical environment. Conduct ethics and integrity awareness
for the department. Promote financial disclosure system. Develop and maintain
internal anti-corruption systems. Investigate all allegations of fraud and
corruption received from internal and external persons. Conduct research on
latest fraud and corruption legislation and develop educational programmes.
Develop and implement fraud prevention ad anti-corruption strategies.
Conduct fraud risk assessment. Develop and monitor the fraud prevention
plan. Provide strategic direction for the directorate. Research and keep abreast
of breast practice initiatives and developments within the directorate. Develop
business/ strategic plan for the directorate and align it with Chief Directorate
and ensure implementation thereof. Oversee the development and
implementation of operational plans for the directorate. Develop and
coordinate a service delivery improvement plan. Manage resources (Human/
Finance/Equipment/ Assets). Ensure proper implementation of budget by
monitoring, projecting and reporting expenditure. Ensure proper spending in
line with strategic objectives. Monitor the optimal utilization and functionality of
equipment. Evaluate and monitor performance of employees to ensure
achievement strategic goal. Manage the human resource development of
employees in the directorate. Enhance and maintain employee motivation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
POST 28/86 : DIRECTOR: INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY REF NO:
REFS/050137
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus undergraduate (NQF Level 7) in ICT / Information Communication
Technology / Computer Science / or a relevant ICT-related field as recognised
by SAQA. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience at middle or senior
management level in ICT management environment. Valid driver’s license.
Competencies: Knowledge, understanding and implementation of the
Department of Public Services DPSA) State Information Technology Agency
(SITA) Act, Information Technology Governance Framework, Internal and
External Audits, ICT Risk Management, ICT strategy development, Operational
plans Implementation and general administration duties, practices as well as
the ability to capture data, operate computer and collecting statistics.
Managerial Competencies: Visionary leadership, change management,
planning and organising, financial management, people management and
development, project management, service delivery innovation. Generic
Competencies: Business acumen, customer management, results/quality
management, analytical thinking, decision making, innovation and creativity.
93
Technical Competencies: Knowledge of System Development Life Cycle, ICT
security management, project management, risk management, database
design and administration (SQL, MySQL), data center operations, software
development tools, networking principles, IT governance frameworks (COBIT,
ITIL, ISO), business analysis, disaster recovery, data analytics and integration
solutions. Skills: ICT Regulations and standards (COBIT, ITIL, ISO etc.
Business Analysis, Innovative development technologies, DBMS technologies,
Project management skills, Information and data Security. Risk assessment
and mitigation, Disaster recovery technologies.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of infrastructure and operational support services.
Manage the provision of desktop support services to the Department. Manage
the provision of support and maintenance of the servers. Manage the provision
of support and maintenance of all the networks. Manage the provision of
support and coordination of departmental telecommunication services
(telephony, video conferencing etc.). Manage innovative business solutions,
development and implementation. Manage the automation and digitization of
information and business processes. Manage ICT projects. Manage the
provision of reliable, secured, quality information and data analytics through
integration of business solutions. Develop and ensure implementation,
maintenance, training and provide support business applications. Manage and
implement ICT governance and policy frameworks. Provide ICT service
management and manage ICT projects. Develop and ensure implementation
of ICT policy and ICT security. Develop and facilitate the implementation of IT
policies. Ensure ICT continuity and ICT change management. Manage
acquisition and management of ICT solutions (Software, Hardware and Goods
& Services). Manage ICT service desk 4. Provide strategic direction for the
Directorate. Research and keep abreast of the best practice initiatives and
developments within the directorate. Develop business/ strategic plan for the
directorate and align it with Chief Directorate and ensure implementation
thereof. Oversee the development and implementation of operational plans for
the directorate. Develop and coordinate a service delivery improvement plan.
Manage resources (Human, Financial, Assets). Manage and ensure proper
implementation of budget by monitoring, projection and reporting of
expenditure. Consolidate budget and ensure proper spending in line with
strategic objectives. Ensure optimal utilization and functionality of equipment/
assets. Evaluate and monitor performance of employees to ensure
achievement of Directorate strategic goal. Manage the development of
employees in the directorate. Enhance and maintain employee motivation.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
POST 28/87 : DIRECTOR: COMMUNICATIONS REF NO: REFS/050138
This is a readvertisement; applicants who applied previously are encouraged
to reapply
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all-inclusive salary package which can be structured
according to the individual’s needs).
CENTRE : Johannesburg (Head Office)
REQUIREMENTS : Matric plus undergraduate qualification (NQF level 7) in Communications/
Public Relations/ Media Liaison/Journalism as recognized by SAQA. A
minimum of five (5) years’ relevant experience in middle or senior management
level in communications environment. Valid driver’s license. Competencies:
Knowledge of GPG policies and procedures, Relevant legislation and Public
Service Regulations, understanding of expectations of customers, Knowledge
of Contracts, Management information, Project management methodologies,
Policy development and change management. Knowledge and understanding
of Financial Management, Project Management. Planning and Organising,
Proactive and resourceful. Attributes: Innovative, Team player and flexible,
Client Orientated, Quality orientated, cost conscious, Influential, strategic,
Presentation skills, Communication skills, Analytical skills, Leadership skills
and report writing skills.
DUTIES : Manage development, implementation and execution of the department’s
integrated communications strategy, encompassing internal and external
communication, media and social media engagement, stakeholder relations,
events, and digital platforms, including the department’s internet and intranet.
Manage inter-departmental and inter-governmental platforms to ensure
aligned, coherent and impactful communication. Manage the department’s
media liaison function and broader media ecosystem. Lead content strategy,
94
creation and editorial oversight across all communication platforms. Manage
the development and implementation of stakeholder engagement strategies,
policies and procedures and overseeing the planning and delivery of
departmental campaigns, events, exhibitions and activations. Manage the
department’s editorial, publications and content programmes, including the
coordination and production of statutory and corporate publications. Manage
media liaison and monitoring services. Oversee content distribution across
traditional, digital and social media platforms, as well as governance. Ensure
proper implementation of budget by monitoring, projecting and reporting
expenditure. Manage resources (Human/ Finance/Equipment/ Assets).
ENQUIRIES : Ms. Iris Thanjekwayo at 072 788 2364
95
ANNEXURE T
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: KWAZULU-NATAL
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, TOURISM AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Provincial Administration of KwaZulu-Natal is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and
women and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. The Department of Economic Development,
Tourism, and Environmental Affairs is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and preference
will be given to suitably qualified candidates from designated groups in terms of the Employment Equity
Act, 1998. The Department reserves the right not to make these appointments.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants are encouraged to apply for posts through the KZN online e-
Recruitment system at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs or submit their Z83 and
CV directly to the following email address: kznjobs@kznedtea.gov.za
Applicants may also visit any one of our Designated Online Application Centres
(DOACS), where our friendly staff will assist you with applying online or
receiving your hardcopy application. You can find the Designated Online
Application Centres (DOACS) list at www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
Applications may alternatively be forwarded to the Department of Economic
Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Private Bag X9152,
Pietermaritzburg, 3200, OR hand delivered to the Ground Floor, 270 Jabu
Ndlovu Street, Pietermaritzburg, 3201, in the vacancy box provided for the
attention of Ms Nondumiso Buthelezi / Mr Sipho Zangwa.
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026 (at 16h00). Applications received after the closing date and
time will not be considered.
NOTE : To applicants: All information submitted will be treated as confidential. The
Department reserves the right to withhold the filling of the abovementioned
posts at any time before an appointment. All applications must be submitted on
the new Application for Employment form (Z83), which became effective from
the 1st of January 2021, obtainable from any Public Service Department or can
be downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The form must be completed
in full, and the application form should be initiated, signed, and dated. All
required information on the Z83 must be provided. Failure to complete or
disclose all information will automatically disqualify the applicant. The
completed and signed Z83 must be accompanied by an updated, detailed
Curriculum Vitae (CV). Dates of starting and leaving employment must be
given as DD/MM/YYYY. Shortlisted candidates must submit certified
documents on or before the day of the interview, following communication from
Human Resources. Should an applicant have a foreign qualification, it must be
accompanied by an evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications
Authority (SAQA). It is the applicant’s responsibility to have foreign
qualifications evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA).
Applications submitted electronically will be taken as a final application and
may not be amended or supplemented in any way after the closing date
indicated in the advertisement. If you have not been contacted within three (3)
months after the closing date of the advertisement, please accept that your
application was unsuccessful. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
undergo a competency test/technical exercise. “ please note that applicants
should only use one of the following methods when applying for a post: either
through the online e-recruitment system, emailing the z83 and cv directly to the
relevant department, or submitting a hardcopy application as directed.
Candidates are discouraged from sending their applications through registered
mail, as the Department will not take responsibility for the non-collection of
those applications. The appointment is subject to a positive outcome obtained
from the State Security Agency to the following checks (security clearance,
qualification, citizenship, and previous employment verifications). The
Department will conduct reference checks with the HR of the current and or
/previous employer(s) apart from the referees listed. All shortlisted candidates
for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise that intends to test
relevant technical elements of the job, the logistics of which will be
communicated by the Department. Following the interview and technical
exercise, the selection panel will recommend candidate/s to attend a generic
managerial competency assessment (in compliance with the DPSA Directive
on implementing competency-based assessment). The competency
assessment will test generic managerial competencies using the mandated
DPSA SMS competency assessment tools. All shortlisted candidates, including
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One must be a practical
exercise, and the other must be an Integrity (Ethical Conduct) Assessment.
96
Selection panels shall score both technical exercises as an additional criterion
in the interview process. Before the appointment for SMS positions, the
appointee will be required to produce a Pre-entry certificate for the Senior
Management Pre-Entry Programme, a public service-specific training program
applicable to all applicants who aspire to join the SMS. The course is offered
by the National School of Government (NSG). The course is available at the
NSG under the name Certificate for entry, and the full details can be obtained
by following the link: https://www.thensg.gov.za/trainingcourse/smspre-
entryprogramme. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the Department
is not in a position to meet any travel and subsistence costs relating to
recruitment processes.
OTHER POST
POST 28/88 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: BLACK INDUSTRIALIST PROGRAMME REF NO:
DD- BIP 01/JULY 2026 (X2 POSTS)
Business Unit: Black Industrialist Programme
This post is being re-advertised. candidates who previously applied may re-
apply
SALARY : R932 292 - R1 098 195 per annum (Level 11)
CENTRE : Head Office: Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate Bachelor’s Degree / Three-year National Diploma in Business
Management / Business Administration/ Economics / Production / Operations
Management at NQF Level 6/7 as recognized by SAQA. A minimum of 3 years’
junior management experience in Enterprise Development in the
manufacturing space or Industrial Development project. A valid driver’s
License. Skills, Training And Competencies: The successful candidate must
have an in-depth knowledge of Manufacturing value chains, New Regulatory
Frameworks for the Public Service, National Industrial Policy Framework,
National Development Plan, Integrated Action Plan, Economic Development
Plans, Provincial Growth & Development Strategy, National R&D and
Innovation Strategy, Industrial Policy Action Plan, National & Provincial
Economic Transformation Policies and Strategies as well as Black Industrial
Policy and Enterprise Development and Interpreting and Analysing Economic
Information. Sound knowledge and understanding of the Public Service
Regulatory Framework, e.g., Public Service Act, PFMA, Constitution of the
Republic of South Africa, Public Service Act, Public Service Regulations, Public
Finance Management Act, Labour Relations Act, Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, Service Delivery Frameworks (Batho Pele Principles),
Employee Performance Management System, Skills Development Act,
Promotion of Access to Information Act, National Development Plan, Promotion
of Administrative Justice Act, Project Management Principle. Skills such
Research, Planning and organizing, Verbal and written communication (isiZulu
& English proficiency), Negotiation and Networking, Ability to interact with
people at all levels, Time management, Interpersonal relations, Project
management, Business profiling, Report writing and Presentation skills,
Budgeting and financial management, Stakeholder management, Analytical
and Innovative thinking, problem solving, mentorship and people management
as well as Computer Literacy. Attributes such as Competence, Vision, Integrity,
Transparency, Respect, Honesty & trustworthy, Team-player, as well as
Commitment.
DUTIES : Facilitate the implementation of the KZN Black Industrial Framework; facilitate
the KZN Black Industrialist stakeholder partnerships; Facilitate market and
financial access for KZN Black Industrialists; Develop and implement policies,
strategies, frameworks, and plans relevant to the Black Industrialist
Programme; Manage the human and financial resources of the Sub-
directorate.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. P. Mthembu Tel No: (033) 264 2789
NOTE : NB: all the appointments will be made in accordance with the employment
equity targets of the department, which is African Male, Coloured Male, Indian
Male, and People with Disabilities who meet the requirements are encouraged
to apply.
97
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/89 REGISTRAR: MEDICAL (VARIOUS)
SALARY : R1 041 402 per annum, (This is an all-inclusive flexible remuneration package
that may be structured according to specific rules). Applicants to note: Salary
package is subject to OSD determination plus commuted overtime depending
on needs of the Discipline/Institution.
CENTRE : Various (KZN) – Medical:
Anaesthesiology And Critical Care Ref No: Reg 02/2027
Cardiothoracic Surgery Ref No: Reg 03/2027
Emergency Medicine Ref No: Reg 04/2027
Family Medicine Ref No: Reg 05/2027
Forensic Medicine Ref No: Reg 06/2027
General Surgery Ref No: Reg 07/2027
Internal Medicine Ref No: Reg 08/2027
Neurosurgery Ref No: Reg 09/2027
Nuclear Medicine Ref No: Reg 10/2027
Obstetrics & Gynaecology Ref No: Reg 11/2027
Orthopaedic Surgery Ref No: Reg 12/2027
Paediatric Surgery Ref No: Reg 13/2027
Paediatrics & Child Health Ref No: Reg 14/2027
Plastic Surgery Ref No: Reg 15/2027
Psychiatry Ref No: Reg 16/2027
Urology Ref No: Reg 17/2027
REQUIREMENTS : Tertiary qualification (MBCHB) or equivalent (MEDICAL). Registration
certificate for Independent Practice with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa as a Medical Practitioner; Current Annual Practicing Certificate
from Health Professions Council of South Africa; Twelve (12) months post
Community Service experience as a Medical Officer as at closing date of this
advert; Valid driver’s license; Relevant Discipline Specific Minimum
Requirements below (depending on the Discipline): Anesthesiology and
Critical Care: Minimum 12 months full-time experience in Anesthesia post-
Community Service and DA (SA) (or equivalent) and FCA Part 1 examination
(or equivalent). Cardiothoracic Surgery: FCS Intermediates and Minimum 12
months experience in General Surgery post community service. Emergency
Medicine: Minimum 6 Months full-time (recent experience in the Discipline and
Primary Exams in Emergency Medicine (FCEM Part 1). Family Medicine:
Minimum 6 Months full-time experience in Family Medicine and a Diploma in a
relevant discipline. Forensic Medicine: Two weeks of prior experience
observing and performing Medicolegal Postmortem examinations at Forensic
Pathology Services in South Africa. General Surgery: 12 months’ experience
in the Discipline (incl. Emergency Department or other surgical disciplines i.e.
ENT, Urology, Orthopedics) and FCS(SA) Primary exam and ATLS. Internal
Medicine: Minimum 12 months of experience in Internal Medicine and FCP
Part I and Diploma in Internal Medicine qualification. Neurosurgery: Minimum
6 months’ experience in Discipline and Primary exams. Nuclear Medicine:
Minimum 6 weeks experience in Nuclear Medicine at a recognized training
institution. Obstetrics & Gynecology: Minimum 12 months’ experience in the
Discipline at a Regional Hospital or at a hospital with a busy maternity unit (at
least 300 deliveries per month) and FCOG Part I. Orthopaedic Surgery:
Minimum of 36 months of uninterrupted recent service in the discipline of
Orthopaedics (Neither community service nor ICU/Trauma rotations included)
under supervision by a consultant (regional/tertiary) and FCS(SA) Primary and
FC Orth (SA) intermediates and ATLS course done. Paediatric Surgery: FCS
(SA) primary exams and FCS (SA) Intermediate exams and Minimum of 12
months experience in General Surgical discipline, with rotation in Paediatric
surgery or evidence of Paediatric surgical experience. Paediatrics & Child
Health: Minimum 6 months experience in the Discipline in a Regional hospital
and FC Paeds Part I or Diploma in Child Health. Plastic Surgery: FCS(SA)
intermediate exam and 6months of experience in the discipline, Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery. Psychiatry: Minimum 6 Months experience in
Discipline and Either FC Psych I or Diploma in Mental Health (or equivalent).
Urology: 6 Months’ experience in the discipline of Urology and FCS Part 1
examination (or equivalent) and ATLS Course completed. Basic knowledge of
98
Medical Practice Ethics, ability to manage patients independently, ability to
learn, innovate and be prepared to work overtime, good interpersonal skills, an
interest in conducting research, knowledge and respect of the Patients’ Rights
Charter and Batho Pele Principles.
DUTIES : Participation in academic and teaching programmes and meetings in the
respective Departments, responsibility for care of patients at designated
levels/sites, e.g. Outpatients, Wards, Theatres, ICUs etc; management of
patients under supervision, attendance at ward rounds and/or tutorials,
supervision and teaching of undergraduates, provision of after-hours care for
emergency services, clerking and keeping of comprehensive records of
patients in the hospital file, outreach activities as deemed necessary by the
Clinical Supervisor, Personal development to the level of independent
specialist practice in the chosen field.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R Erasmus Tel No: (033) 395 2472 /2742 /2669 3347
Anaesthesiology And Critical Care: Prof D. Gopalan Tel No: (031) 260-4472
Cardiothoracic Surgery: Dr. N. Ndibi Tel No: (031) 240-2114
Emergency Medicine: Dr Garach Tel No: (031) 206-4531
Family Medicine: Prof B Gaede Tel No: (031) 260-4484
Forensic Medicine: Prof Mfolozi Tel No: (031) 260 2580
General Surgery: Prof B Phakathi Tel No: (031) 260 4064
Internal Medicine: Prof N. Magula Tel No: (031) 260-4242
Neurosurgery: Dr. B. Enicker Tel No: (031) 240-1134
Nuclear Medicine: Prof M Vorster Tel No: (031) 260-4301
Obstetrics & Gynaecology: Prof M. Sebitloane Tel No: (031) 260-4390
Orthopaedic Surgery: Dr PG Mthethwa Tel No: (031) 260-4297
Paediatric Surgery: Dr M Sheik-Gafoor Tel No: (031) 260-4151
Paediatrics & Child Health: Dr L Mubaiwa Tel No: (031) 260-4348
Plastic Surgery: Prof M Daya Tel No: (031) 260-2134
Psychiatry: Prof B. Chiliza Tel No: (031) 260-4321
Urology: Dr C Zietsman Tel No: (031) 260 4292
APPLICATIONS : All applications must be addressed to Mrs R Erasmus, Human Resource
Management Services, Registrar Programme, Department of Health, 330
Langalibalele Street, Natalia Building, Room 6-106 South Tower or online
through the e-Recruitment system at www.kznhealth.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs R Erasmus, Human Resources Tel No: (033) 395 2472/2742/ 2669/ 3347
NOTE : Applicants are discouraged from sending applications through registered
mail/postal service as the Department will not be responsible for non-collection
of these applications. No late applications will be accepted. Applications
submitted though the online platforms must include copies of all documents
listed above. Originally certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents will be requested from shortlisted candidates which must be
submitted on the day of the interview. Medical Registrars - Training will take
place at various sites for each discipline. Registrars may be required to spend
time at various training institutions as required by the discipline. The site for the
1st year of training and subsequent rotations will be determined by the
Academic Head of Discipline. Applicants are requested to apply separately for
the disciplines of their interest. A maximum of three applications will be allowed
which should be ranked in order of preference. One application for various
Disciplines will not be accepted. Applications from applicants who are already
appointed in the Registrar Programme will not be considered. As per HPCSA
Regulations, the duration of Registrar training is 4/5 years, depending on the
Discipline. All Registrars will be expected to register with the university for the
MMED at own expense. All Registrars will be required to sign a contract which
includes training and service responsibilities. Registrars will be required to
complete Performance Agreements and assessments as stipulated by the
Department. Appointments are subject to the signing of a contract which
includes a service pay-back period. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. Please note that due to financial constraints, no S&T will be
considered for the attendance of interviews, nor will resettlement allowance be
considered for relocation purposes. The following documents must be
submitted: Applicants must ensure that they fully complete the most recent
Application for Employment Form (Form Z83) as issued by the Minister for
DPSA (gazetted on 06 November 2020 - 81/971431 effective 01 January 2021)
in line with regulation of 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016 and the
99
information template which is provided to ensure the fair consideration of
suitably qualified applicants and which is obtainable from the website -
www.kznhealth.gov.za. Incomplete or unsigned applications will not be
considered. If you are currently in service, please indicate your PERSAL
number at the top of the Z83. Applications submitted through online platforms
must include copies of the documents listed above. Copies of Qualifications,
Registration Certificates and drivers license must not be submitted when
applying for employment. Only shortlisted candidates will be requested to
submit certified copies on or before the day of the interview. Copies of certified
copies will not be accepted, and submission of such documents will render the
applicant being disqualified. The post reference number must be indicated in
the column provided on the form Z.83. Applicants who do not comply with the
above-mentioned requirements, as well as applications received late, will not
be considered. Appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from
the State Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks (security clearance
(vetting), criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual Property
Commission (CIPC). People with disabilities should feel free to apply for the
post/s. The Department is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer and
to this end, has developed an Employment Equity Plan pursuant to the
Employment Equity Act. Preference for the filling of these posts will be guided
by the Departmental Equity Plan and targets for the occupational level
concerned. Please note that due to large number of applications received,
applications will not be acknowledged. Applicants are respectfully informed
that, if you have not been contacted within 3 months after closing date, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Failure to comply with the
above instructions shall result in the applicant being disqualified. Department
reserves the right not to fill these post (s).
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/90 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1, 2&3 REF NO: NMH/PHRM/2026
SALARY : Grade 1: R882 816 – R936 987 per annum, Plus Rural Allowance appropriate
qualification and registration with Pharmacist.
Grade 2: R954 339 – R1 011 516 per annum, Plus Rural Allowance = 12%
Appropriate qualification and registration with SAPC as Pharmacist plus 5
years’ experience as a pharmacist
Grade 3: R1 041 402 - R1 104 669 per annum, Plus Rural Allowance
Appropriate qualification and registration with SAPC as Pharmacist plus 13
years’ experience as a pharmacist All-inclusive salary package: 70% and 30%
flexible portion can be restructure
CENTRE : Niemeyer Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : STD 10 or grade12 Certificate Appropriate qualification and registration with
the South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a Pharmacist. Persons in
possession of a foreign qualification must furnish the Department with an
evaluation certificate from the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA)
(only when shortlisted). Current registration as a Pharmacist with the SAPC.
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Require: Knowledge of
pharmacy information, relevant Government legislative and Department of
Health Policies and procedures. Computer literate, management skills. Sound
knowledge of District health system. Leadership skills. Interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Manage and control distribution of medicine for inpatients, outpatients and
clinics. Monitor and evaluate the provision of quality pharmaceutical services
including CCMDD. Manage financial resources by maintaining accurate and
appropriate records, statistics and information as required by management
complying with applicable legislation and regulatory policies. Manage human
resource through supervision and support of staff by delegating, empowering,
planning and execution. Provide appropriate and adequate counselling to
patients ensuring optimal pharmaco-therapeutic outcomes. Have a sound
control of stack management with high accuracy/ responsibility and
accountability to PFMA and the allocated budget. Have a sound knowledge of
the six domains; public health, safe and rational use of medicines and devices
and their supply, organisation and management skills, professional and
personal practice, critical analysis and research.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. VB Dlamini Tel No: (034) 331 3011
100
APPLICATIONS : Please forward applications quoting reference number to: Human Resource
Management, Niemeyer Memorial Hospital, Private Bag X1004, Utrecht, 2980
or email: Niemeyer.Intern@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : Directions to Candidates: The following documents must be submitted:
Applications are not required to submit copies of qualification and other
relevant document on application but must submit the Employment Form (Z83)
and the detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of certificates and other
relevant documents will only be requested from shortlisted candidate on or
before the interviews. Therefore only shortlisted candidates for a post will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. It will be expected candidate(s) to be
available for interview process on a day, all shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The reference number must be indicated in the column provided
on form Z83 e.g. Reference Number (NMH/THRT2026) Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post Failure to comply with the
above instructions will disqualify the applicants. The appointment is subject to
positive outcome obtained from the State Security Agency (SAA) to the
following checks (criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship),
verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous
experience from Employers. Please note that due to a large number of
applications received, applications will not be acknowledged, however, only the
short-listed applicants will be advised of the outcome. Applicants are
respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is received within 3
months after the closing date, they must accept that their applications were
unsuccessful. Please note that no S&T payments will be considered for
payment to candidates that are Invited for interview. (This Department is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity at all levels of different Occupational Categories in the
Department). Employment Equity Target for both posts African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 26 August 2026
POST 28/91 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PHC) REF NO: DANCHC 01/2026 (X1
POST)
SALARY : R785 568 – R898 215 per annum. Other benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid
(Optional), 8% Rural Allowance and Housing allowance: Prescribed
requirements to be met.
CENTRE : Dannhauser CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1 Experience: A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 6 years’ experience in PHC after obtaining a 1-year
qualification in Primary Health Care. At least 3 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience at managerial level under
PHC. Grade 12 (Senior Certificate). Degree/Diploma in General Nursing and
Midwifery. Registration with SANC as a General Nurse. PHC Certificate
endorsed by SANC. A minimum of 10 years appropriate/recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 6 years’ experience in PHC after obtaining a 1-year
qualification in Primary Health Care. At least 3 years of the period referred to
above must be appropriate/ recognizable experience at managerial level under
PHC. Driver’s license. Diploma in Nursing Administration. ICRM programme
will be added as an advantage. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Required for the post: Knowledge of Nursing care processes and procedures,
Nursing Acts, Health Act, Nurses Pledge, Patient’s-Right charter, Batho Pele
principles etc. Nursing statutes and relevant legal framework. Knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework governing the public services.
Knowledge of HR, Finance, Skills development, Labour Relations, Public
Service. PHC Guidelines and other prescripts. Conflict, change and people
management and decision-making skills. Writing reports and time
management, leadership and supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Manage minor and acute, casualty, HAST, Mother and Child, Mobile services
and satellite clinics. Delegate, supervise and coordinate the provisioning of
effective and efficient patient care through adequate nursing care. Participate
in the implementation of the nursing plan, clinical audits, QIP’s and its
101
implementation for quality care. Participate in the formulation of nursing
standards, protocols, sops, policies and ensure implementation through
monitoring and evaluation. Ensure that practice in nursing is in accordance with
laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Manage and monitor
HR and Finance in all relevant clinical areas. Facilitate implementation of ICRM
and OHSC monitor process and maintain status and compliance. Facilitate and
oversee the development of Nursing Operational plan in the relevant clinical
areas and satellite clinics. Monitor and ensure data collection and adherence
to Data Management Principles. Coordinate and engage Sukuma Sakhe
promoting activities/ events within the community. Facilitate and monitor
implementation of PHC re-engineering. Monitor implementation of clinical
governance in the units and satellite clinics. Provide guidance and leadership
towards the realization of strategic goals and objectives. Delegate, supervise
and coordinate the provision of effective, efficient quality of care. Establish,
maintain and participate in inter-professional and multi-disciplinary teamwork
that promotes Health Care. Provide strategic leadership in delivery of
integration DHS based on relevant policy imperatives. Reduce burden of
diseases by implementing the integrated multi stakeholder HEALTH promotion
well-being strategy (IMHPWS) fully in your subdistrict and implementation of
health program and service package within the subdistrict. Ensure effective,
efficient and economical management of allocated resources- HRM, HRD,
Budget, Transport, Equipment etc. within the subdistrict. Monitor and evaluate
the PHC activities. Management of Records, Data performance information
within the subdistrict.
ENQUIRIES : Dr FP Mtshali Tel No: (034) 621 6100
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to Assistant Director: HRM; KZN:
Department of Health; Hand delivery to: Dannhauser Community Health
Centre; No 7 Durnacol Road; Dannhauser, 3080 Email Address:
DannhauserCHC.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za or
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs DBP Buthelezi
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application for employment
form (Z83-fully completed) and Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents and proof of current
registration with the respective council on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The Reference Number must be indicated in the column (Part A)
provided thereof on the Z83 form. NB: Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. Faxed applications will not be accepted.
Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The
appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records and citizenship, verification of educational
qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
Applicants are respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is
received within 3 months after the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Preference will be given to African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/92 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (PRIMARY HEALTH CARE) REF NO: MURCH-
MOBILE 01/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R720 819 per annum. Other Benefits 13th Cheque, Home owners allowance
(employee must meet prescribed Requirements), Medical Aid (Optional) and
12% Rural Allowance
CENTRE : Murchison Hospital- Thembalesizwe Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate Degree / Diploma in General nursing plus 1 year post basic
qualification in Primary Health Care or 1 year post basic qualification in
Community Nursing Science with specialization in Clinical Nursing Science,
Health Assessment, Treatment and Care as per R212 SANC Regulation.
Current registration with SANC as a General Nurse and Primary Health Care
Nurse A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing
after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC in general nursing of
102
which 5 years must be appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining the
one year post basic qualification in Primary Health Care or one year post basic
qualification in Community Nursing Science with specialization in Clinical
Nursing Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care as per R212 SANC
Regulation. Certificate of service from previous and current employer endorsed
and stamped by HR Preference will be given to candidates who possess a valid
Code 08 Drivers license and have proof of Computer Literacy Knowledge,
Skills and Competencies Knowledge of nursing care and processes and
procedures, nursing statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks Knowledge
of Public service regulations Disciplinary code, human resource policies,
hospital generic and specific policies Leadership, organizational, decision
making and problem solving abilities within the limit of the public sector and
institutional policy framework and good communication skills Interpersonal
skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict handling and counselling
skills Financial and budgetary knowledge pertaining to the relevant resources
under management Insight into procedures and policies pertaining to nursing
care Computer skills in basic programmes.
DUTIES : Monitor and evaluate the performance of primary health care services and
systems within the designated services area in line with, public health
indicators, set norms, standards and targets with a view to report thereon and
to initiate corrective action timeously. Analyse health policy and programme
imperatives with a view to developing customised implementation strategies to
guide the primary health care service providers in the service area towards
complying with the stated norms, standards and targets. Identify “transversal
“primary” health care and systems barriers (including emerging health trends
in the service area) with a view to ensure corrective action at an appropriate
level. Ensure and monitor that primary health care services within the
designated services area are provided with adequate support by multi-
disciplinary teams attached to the CHC / district hospital as well as from shared
corporate service providers attached to the mothering institution. Ensure an
integrated approach with the implementation of various primary health care
programmes to provide a seamless service delivery platform, including the
prioritising of needs within the service area and the allocation of resources
accordingly. Ensure the effective and efficient utilisation of allocated resources,
including the development of staff budgetary, procurement planning inputs and
maintenance of prescribed information management systems.
ENQUIRIES Mr LG Nyawo Tel No: (039) 687 7315, ext. 130
APPLICATIONS : All Applications should be forwarded to: Chief Executive Officer Murchison
District Hospital P/Bag X701, Port Shepstone, 4240 Or Hand Delivered To:
Human Resources Department, Murchison Hospital. (Applications can also be
e-mailed to: MurchisonHospital.Recruitment@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : The following documents must be submitted: Application for Employment Form
(Z83) which is obtainable at any Government Department or from the Website
- www.kznhealth.gov.za. The Z83 form must be completed in full in a manner
that allows a selection committee to assess the quality of a candidate based
on the information provided in the form Applicant for employment are not
required to submit copies of qualifications and other relevant documents on
application but must submit the Z83 form and detailed curriculum Vitae(CV)
The certified copies of qualifications and all other required relevant documents
will be requested only from the shortlisted candidates which may be submitted
to HR on or before the day of the interview Faxed applications will not be
accepted The reference number must be indicated in the column provided on
the form Z83 e.g. MURCH/ 29/2023 NB: Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. The appointments are subject to a
positive outcome obtained from the State Security Agency (SSA) to the
following checks (criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship),
verification of Educational qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous
experience from Employers and verification from the Company Intellectual
Property Commission (CIPC). Applicants in possession of a foreign
qualification must attach an evaluation certificate from the South African
Qualifications Authority (SAQA) when the applicant is shortlisted. Non-RSA /
Permanent Residents / Work permit holders must submit documentary proof
when the applicant is shortlisted) Please note that due to large number of
applications anticipated, applications will not be acknowledged. However,
every applicant will be advised of the outcome of his or her applications in due
course. (This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative active employer,
whose aim is to promote representivity in all occupational categories in the
103
Institution) If you have not heard from us within two months from the closing
date, Please accept that your application has been unsuccessful Employment
Equity target for the post is African Male and people with disabilities are
encouraged to apply. Please note that due to the budget constraints no S&T
and Resettlement allowance will be paid to any successful candidate on
appointment. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate's suitability based on the post's technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026
POST 28/93 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (NAASFARM CLINIC) REF NO:
DANCHC 02/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum. Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid
(Optional), Inhospitable Allowance: 8% and Housing allowance: Prescribed
requirements to be met. Basic qualification in Primary Health Care.
CENTRE : Naasfarm Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the one-year post Grade
12(Senior Certificate), Standard 10/ or National Certificate plus basic R425
qualification i.e. Degree/Diploma in nursing or equivalent qualification that
allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. Post Basic qualification
with the duration of at least 1 year in Curative Skills in Primary Health Care
accredited with the SANC. Current registration with SANC (2026) as
Professional Nurse and Primary Health Care and a minimum of 9 years
appropriate /recognisable experience after registration as Professional Nurse
in General Nursing. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required
for the post: Knowledge of Nursing care processes and procedures, Nursing
Acts, Health Act, Nurses Pledge, Patient’s-Right charter, Batho Pele principles
etc. Nursing statutes and relevant legal framework. Knowledge and
understanding of legislative framework governing the public services.
Knowledge of HR, Finance, Skills development, Labour Relations, Public
Service. PHC Guidelines and other prescripts. Conflict, change and people
management. Disciplinary code and procedure, Grievance Procedure, Human
Resource Policies, Hospital generic and specific policies. Leadership,
organisational, decision making and problem-solving abilities within the limit of
the public sector and institutional policy framework, supervisory and
communication skills. Good report writing and facilitation skills, good verbal and
communication skills. Team building and cross-cultural awareness.
Interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict handling and
counselling skills. Sound knowledge of the National Core standards (OHSC)
and Data Management. Sound knowledge of health programme run at the PHC
level. Insight into procedures and policies pertaining to nursing care. Financial
and budgetary knowledge pertaining to the relevant resources under
management. Computer skills in basic programmes.
DUTIES : Facilitate provision of comprehensive package of service at PHC level
including priority programme and Quality Improvement Programmes. Develop
Clinic Operational Plan, monitor the implementation and submit progress
reports. Participate in the implementation of the nursing plan (Clinical
practice/quality patient care). Participate in clinical audits in the facility and
ensure implementation of the quality improvement plans supported by strong
work ethics. Implement standards, practices, criteria and indicators for quality
nursing (Quality of practice). Practice nursing and health care in accordance
with laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Maintain a
constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Provide
direct and indirect supervision of all nursing staff/housing keeping staff and give
guidance. Ensure continuity of patient care on all levels e.g. workbook,
handover and rounds. Ensure effective utilisation of human resources, material
and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Render health services in the
community by implementing Community Oriented Primary Care. Supervise
and ensure the provision of an efficient patient care through adequate nursing
care at the clinic. Ensure Batho Pele principles, National Core standards and
ideal Clinic priorities are implemented. Provide safe therapeutic environment
that allows for the practice of safe nursing care as laid down by nursing act and
104
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Compile monthly, quarterly statistics and
other reports. Provide strategic leadership in delivery of integration DHS based
on relevant policy imperatives. Reduce burden of diseases by implementing
the integrated multi stakeholder Health promotion well-being strategy
(IMHPWS) fully in your subdistrict and implementation of health programmes
and service package within the subdistrict. Ensure effective, efficient and
economical management of allocated resources- HRM, HRD, Budget,
Transport, Equipment etc. within the subdistrict. Monitor and evaluate the PHC
activities. Management of Records, Data performance information within the
subdistrict.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs BA Mbatha Tel No: (034) 621 6100
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to Assistant Director: HRM; KZN:
Department of Health; Hand delivery to: Dannhauser Community Health
Centre; No 7 Durnacol Road; Dannhauser, 3080. Email Address:
DannhauserCHC.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za or
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs DBP Buthelezi
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application for employment
form (Z83-fully completed) and Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents and proof of current
registration with the respective council on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The Reference Number must be indicated in the column (Part A)
provided thereof on the Z83 form. NB: Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. Faxed applications will not be accepted.
Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The
appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records and citizenship, verification of educational
qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
Applicants are respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is
received within 3 months after the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Preference will be given to African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/94 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING (VIEDRIET CLINIC) REF NO:
DANCHC 03/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : R720 819 – R821 454 per annum. Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid
(Optional), Inhospitable Allowance: 8% and Housing allowance: Prescribed
requirements to be met.
CENTRE : Viedriet Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/ recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience after obtaining the one-year post basic
qualification in Primary Health Care. Grade 12 (Senior Certificate), Standard
10/ or National Certificate plus basic R425 qualification i.e. Degree/Diploma in
nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Post Basic qualification with the duration of at least 1 year
in Curative Skills in Primary Health Care accredited with the SANC. Current
registration with SANC (2026) as Professional Nurse and Primary Health Care
and a minimum of 9 years appropriate /recognisable experience after
registration as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competencies required for the post: Knowledge of Nursing care
processes and procedures, Nursing Acts, Health Act, Nurses Pledge, Patient’s-
Right charter, Batho Pele principles etc. Nursing statutes and relevant legal
framework. Knowledge and understanding of legislative framework governing
the public services. Knowledge of HR, Finance, Skills development, Labour
Relations, Public Service. PHC Guidelines and other prescripts. Conflict,
change and people management. Disciplinary code and procedure, Grievance
Procedure, Human Resource Policies, Hospital generic and specific policies.
Leadership, organisational, decision-making and problem-solving abilities
105
within the limit of the public sector and institutional policy framework,
supervisory and communication skills. Good report writing and facilitation skills,
good verbal and communication skills. Team building and cross-cultural
awareness. Interpersonal skills including public relations, negotiating, conflict
handling and counselling skills. Sound knowledge of the National Core
standards (OHSC) and Data Management. Sound knowledge of health
programme run at the PHC level. Insight into procedures and policies
pertaining to nursing care. Financial and budgetary knowledge pertaining to
the relevant resources under management. Computer skills in basic
programmes.
DUTIES : Facilitate provision of comprehensive package of service at PHC level
including priority programme and Quality Improvement Programmes. Develop
Clinic Operational Plan, monitor the implementation and submit progress
reports. Participate in the implementation of the nursing plan (Clinical
practice/quality patient care). Participate in clinical audits in the facility and
ensure implementation of the quality improvement plans supported by strong
work ethics. Implement standards, practices, criteria and indicators for quality
nursing (Quality of practice). Practice nursing and health care in accordance
with laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health care. Maintain a
constructive working relationship with nursing and other stakeholders. Provide
direct and indirect supervision of all nursing staff/housing keeping staff and give
guidance. Ensure continuity of patient care on all levels e.g. workbook,
handover and rounds. Ensure effective utilisation of human resources, material
and physical resources efficiently and effectively. Render health services in the
community by implementing Community-Oriented Primary Care. Supervise
and ensure the provision of an efficient patient care through adequate nursing
care at the clinic. Ensure Batho Pele principles, National Core standards and
ideal Clinic priorities are implemented. Provide safe therapeutic environment
that allows for the practice of safe nursing care as laid down by nursing act and
Occupational Health and Safety Act. Compile monthly, quarterly statistics and
other reports. Provide strategic leadership in delivery of integration DHS based
on relevant policy imperatives. Reduce burden of diseases by implementing
the integrated multi stakeholder health promotion wellbeing strategy
(IMHPWS) fully in your subdistrict and implementation of health programmes
and service package within the subdistrict. Ensure effective, efficient and
economical management of allocated resources- HRM, HRD, Budget,
Transport, Equipment etc. within the subdistrict. Monitor and evaluate the PHC
activities. Management of Records, Data performance information within the
subdistrict.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs BA Mbatha Tel No: (034) 621 6100
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to Assistant Director: HRM; KZN:
Department of Health; Hand delivery to: Dannhauser Community Health
Centre; No 7 Durnacol Road; Dannhauser, 3080. Email Address:
DannhauserCHC.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za or
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs DBP Buthelezi
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application for employment
form (Z83-fully completed) and Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents and proof of current
registration with the respective council on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The Reference Number must be indicated in the column (Part A)
provided thereof on the Z83 form. NB: Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. Faxed applications will not be accepted.
Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The
appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records and citizenship, verification of educational
qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
Applicants are respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is
received within 3 months after the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Preference will be given to African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
106
POST 28/95 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER (MAMBEDWINI CLINIC) REF NO: MA01/2026
(X1 POST)
Component: Nursing-PHC
SALARY : Grade 1: R720 821 – R821 554 per annum. Other Benefits: 13th Cheque,
Medical Aid (Optional) and Housing Allowance (Employee must meet the
prescribed requirements). Rural allowance 8%
CENTRE : Appelsbosch Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Degree/National Diploma in General Nursing and Midwifery. Only shortlisted
candidate will submit proof of current registration with SANC (2026) as a
Professional Nurse and Midwifery. A Post Basic nursing qualification with a
duration of at least 1 year in Curative skills in Primary Health Care accredited
with SANC Experience: A minimum of 9 years appropriate/recognisable
nursing experience after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. At least 5 years of the period referred above must be
appropriate /recognisable after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in
the relevant specialty. Certificate of Service endorsed by Human Resource as
proof of experience. (Only if shortlisted). Additional information Diploma in
Nursing Management, Computer literacy. Valid Driver’s license Code B (08)
will serve as a recommendation. Knowledge, Skills, Training, And
Competencies Required: Knowledge of SANC Rules and Regulations,
Knowledge of Legislative Framework and Departmental prescripts.
Leadership, organisational, Decision making, problem solving and
interpersonal skills. Basic financial management skills. Knowledge of Human
Resource Management. Personal Attitude, Responsive, Professionalism,
Supportive, Assertive and Team player role. Communication skills and decision
making skills. Leadership and supervisory skills.
DUTIES : Assist in planning, organising and monitoring of objectives of the specialised
unit/department. Manage all resources within the unit effectively and efficiently
to ensure optimum service delivery. Ability to plan and organise own work and
that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display a concern for
patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care. Monitor
Provision of quality comprehensive service delivery at PHC clinic. Participate
actively in Operation Sukuma Sakhe programme. Work as part of the
multidisciplinary team to ensure good nursing care. Demonstrate effective
communication with patients, community and multidisciplinary team. Monitor
safe patient service and improve client satisfaction. Participate in the
attainment of Norms and Standards (OHSC). Contribute to the realization of
Ideal Clinic (ICRM) status. Participate in the analysis and formulation of nursing
policies and procedures. Provide direct and indirect supervision of all staff
within the unit and give guidance. Demonstrate an understanding of Human
Resource and Financial Management Policies and procedures. Monitor and
evaluate the care and management of all patients through clinical audits. Ability
to supervise PHC emergencies and refer appropriately. Monitor
implementation of PHC Re-Engineering Monitor implementation and
performance on indicators on daily, weekly and monthly basis; provide
feedback to management, analyse data and draw up quality improvement plan
and implementation plan. Exercise control of discipline and any other Labour
Related issues in terms of laid down procedures. Ensure complaint
management is functional in the Clinic Ensure functionality of the Clinic
committee programme so that community involvement and participation is
achieved.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M Zele: Assistant Manager Nursing-PHC Tel No: (032) 294 8000
APPLICATIONS : should be forwarded to: The Chief Executive Officer, P/Bag X215, Ozwathini,
3242. email: Zakhele.nxumalo@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Human Resource Manager
NOTE : NB: Applicants are encouraging to hand delivered or courier their applications
this office will not be responsible for late or lost applications due to unreliable
post office. Directions to Candidates: The following documents must be
submitted: Applications are not required to submit copies of qualification and
other relevant document on application but must submit the Employment Form
(Z83) and the detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of certificates and
other relevant documents will only be requested from shortlisted candidate on
or before the interviews. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will
be required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. It will be expected candidate(s) to be
107
available for interview process on a day, all shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The reference number must be indicated in the column provided
on form Z83 e.g. Reference Number MA01/2026) Persons with disabilities
should feel free to apply for the post Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify the applicants. The appointment is subject to positive
outcome obtained from the State Security Agency (SAA) to the following
checks (criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship), verification of
Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from
Employers. Please note that due to a large number of applications received,
applications will not be acknowledged, however, only the short-listed applicants
will be advised of the outcome. Applicants are respectfully informed that, if no
notification of appointment is received within 3 months after the closing date,
they must accept that their applications were unsuccessful. Please note that
no S&T payments will be considered for payment to candidates that are Invited
for interview. (This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer, whose aim is to promote representivity at all levels of different
Occupational Categories in the Department). Equity Target: African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/96 : CLINICAL PROGRAMME COORDINATOR (TRAINING AND
DEVELOPMENT) REF NO: UTHUK 06/2026
SALARY : R571 161 per annum. Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional) and Housing
Allowance (Employee must meet prescribed requirements)
CENTRE : Uthukela District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12/ Matric Certificate. An appropriate B Degree / National Diploma or
equivalent qualification in Nursing, PLUS. Minimum of 7 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Registration as a Midwife
/Accoucheur with SANC. Computer Certificate- Ms Office (Word, Excel,
Outlook & PowerPoint) and post graduate qualification in Nursing Education
will be an added advantage. Current Registration with SANC. Valid Driver’s
License – Code 8 plus. Only Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
proof of experience/ service certificate endorsed by HR Department
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Report writing. Knowledge on District Health
Systems. Knowledge of relevant regulation and policies. An understanding of
challenges facing the Public Health sector. Ability to translate and transform
objectives into practical plan. Leadership, organisational, decision making and
problem-solving abilities within the DHS framework
DUTIES : Ensure alignment of all training plans to the National Development Plan.
Coordinate the District training plan compilation. Prioritize training for priority
programs. Work closely with other program managers to coordinate trainings.
Coordinate, facilitate and attend training. Monitor the training health budget and
ensure timeous procurement of all required resources. Procure all approved
items in line with the business plan. Ensure that all funded RTC training is
conducted and attendees contribute to improving health outcomes. Coordinate
candidates to attend RTC Funded Provincial and District trainings. Monitor
utilization of allocated resources. Monitor that all facilities are well covered in
terms of training for comprehensive and quality service delivery. Facilitate
execution of skills audit in all facilities. Develop a training plan target all facilities
across the district to improve coverage of training items. Map all facilities not
covered after every training. Develop catch-up plans for all facilities not
covered. Participate in quality improvement programs and clinical audits.
Conduct facility support visit using appropriate tools for relevant programs.
Facilitate the signing of mentorship agreements for priority training and the
linkage of training attendees to mentors. Conduct mentorship after all priority
trainings. Attend performance review meetings quietly. Compile and manage
data health care training providers, which can assist in extending the health
care training function, including post training quality assessments. Facilitate
the compilation of standardised attendance registers in all trainings.
Coordinate reporting of all trainings to RTC and HRD through forwarding
standardised completed attendance registers. Coordinate the district database
108
for all trainings conducted and attended. Share attendance registers with
relevant program managers and Sub-District after each training.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T.J. Mpembe Tel No: (036) 631 2202, Ext. 102
APPLICATIONS : All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Human Resource Manager:
UThukela Health District Office, Private Bag X9958, Ladysmith 3370 OR Hand
Deliver to: 32 Lyell Street, Ladysmith 3370 or email your application:
UthukelaDistrict.HRJobapplication@kznhealth.gov.za and apply on
Siyathesha waya waya Eservices
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: HRM
NOTE : This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose
aim is to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. Note: The contents of this Circular Minute must be brought to the
notice of all eligible officers and employees on your establishment of all
Institutions. Institutions must notify all candidates who qualify for post in this
circular minute even if they are absent from their normal places of work to
apply. Directions to Candidates: The following documents must be submitted:
Application for Employment form (Z83), which is obtainable from any
Government Department OR from the website - www.kznhealth.gov.za. The
application form (Z83) must be completed in full and accompanied by a detailed
Curriculum Vitae only. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the
day of the interview following communication from Human Resources. The
reference number must be indicated in the column provided on the form Z83
and on the back of the envelope, e.g. Ref 13/2018. NB: Failure to comply with
the above instructions will be disqualify applicants. Person with disabilities
should feel free to apply for these posts. The appointment is subject to positive
outcome obtained from the NIA the following checks (security clearance, credit
records, qualification, citizenship and previous experience employment
verification). Failure to comply will result in the application not being
considered”. Due to the large number of applications, receipt of applications
will not be acknowledged. However, correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Please note that due to financial constraint no S&T
claims will be considered for payment to the candidates that are invited for an
interview. African Males are encouraged to apply due to employment equity
target. Please note that due to financial constraint no resettlement fees will be
considered for payment to the candidates who are offered the positions. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/97 : ULTRA-SONOGRAPHER REF NO: DANCHC 06/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R510 906 – R581 892 per annum
Grade 2: R598 260 – R683 808 per annum
Grade 3: R703 785 – R756 444 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional), Rural Allowance and
Housing allowance: Prescribed requirements to be met.
CENTRE : Dannhauser CHC
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Experience: No experience after registration with the Health
Profession Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an ultra-sonographer in respect
of RSA qualified employee who performed Community Service as required in
South Africa. 1-year relevant experience after registration with HPCSA in
respect of foreign qualified employees. Grade 2: Experience: A minimum of 10
years appropriate /recognisable experience after registration with HPCSA as
an ultra-sonographer in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
community Service. 11 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA in
respect of foreign qualified employees. Grade 3: Experience: A minimum of 20
years appropriate /recognisable experience after registration with HPCSA as
an ultra-sonographer in respect of RSA qualified employees who performed
Community Service. 21 years’ experience after registration with HPCSA in
respect of foreign qualified employees of whom it is not required to perform
Community Service as required in South Africa. Grade 12/ Senior Certificate.
Degree/ National Diploma in Ultrasound. Current registration with HPCSA as
Sonographer. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies required for the
post: Sound knowledge of Obstetrics and Gynaecology ultrasound. Sound
109
knowledge of general ultrasound scans. Sound knowledge of Ultrasound
procedures. Knowledge of relevant Health and Safety policies, regulations and
acts. Sound report writing and administrative skills. Knowledge of Quality
Assurance procedure and methods. Sound communication, interpersonal,
problem solving, teaching and training skills. Good interpersonal relations and
ability to perform with a team. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : Provide high quality ultrasound services consistent with scope of practice and
clinical standards. Provide high quality ultrasound services according to the
patient’s needs. To promote good health practices and ensure optimal patient
care. Execute all ultrasound procedure completely to prevent complications.
Provide general administrative duties as required. Provide guidance and
supervision to junior staff. Participate in multidisciplinary team as part of
medical and allied team. Participate in institutional radiographic policy making
and planning for service delivery. Promote Batho Pele Principles in the
execution of all duties for effective service delivery. Give factual information to
patients and clients on ultrasound examinations. Participate in departmental
Quality Assurance, Quality Improvement Programmes and National Core
Standards. Inspect and utilise equipment professionally to ensure that they
comply with safety standards. Develop protocols to ensure that sonographic
services comply with the required prescripts. Participate in ultrasound quality
assurance programmes. Participate in Continued Professional Development
(CPD) programmes. Compile report and memos as required in the working
environment. Assist with ultrasound patient booking. Perform other duties as
per delegation by radiography management.
ENQUIRIES : Dr FP Mtshali Tel No: (034) 621 6100
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to Assistant Director: HRM; KZN:
Department of Health; Hand delivery to: Dannhauser Community Health
Centre; No 7 Durnacol Road; Dannhauser, 3080. Email Address:
DannhauserCHC.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za or
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs DBP Buthelezi
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application for employment
form (Z83-fully completed) and Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents and proof of current
registration with the respective council on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The Reference Number must be indicated in the column (Part A)
provided thereof on the Z83 form. NB: Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. Faxed applications will not be accepted.
Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The
appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records and citizenship, verification of educational
qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
Applicants are respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is
received within 3 months after the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Preference will be given to African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/98 : CHIEF ARTISAN REF NO: UTHUK 07/2026
SALARY : R499 470 per annum. Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional) and Housing
Allowance (Employee must meet prescribed requirements)
CENTRE : Uthukela District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate (Grade 12) or equivalent; Appropriate Trade Test Certificate
in terms of section 13(2)(h) of the Manpower Act of 1981 as amended Valid
driver’s license, ten years post qualification experience required as an
Artisan/Artisan Foreman. Only Shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
proof of experience/ service certificate endorsed by HR Department
Knowledge, Skills, Training And Competencies Required: Project management
technical design and analysis knowledge Computer-aided technical
applications Knowledge of legal compliance technical report writing technical
consulting Production, process knowledge and skills Problem solving and
110
analysis Decision making Change management financial management
Customer focus and responsiveness Communication Computer skills Planning
and organizing.
DUTIES : Investigate and rectify complaints from staff and community members on
infrastructural matters. To perform frequent site inspections during building and
construction operations to ensure that specifications and plans are adhered to.
Inspect possible new clinic sites and provide technical guidance in the planning
and the maintenance of existing clinics to prevent and alleviate construction
and maintenance difficulties. Attend planning and process meetings and PHC
clinics meetings to identify deficiencies and possible areas for improvement.
Ensure the effective, efficient and economical management of allocated
resources and provide emergency responses to incidents of disaster and
damage to infrastructure by mobilizing contractors and service providers to
assist with repairs.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. M.A.C Asvat Tel No: (036) 631 2202, Ext. 101
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to: The Human Resource Manager,
UThukela Health District Office, Private Bag X9958, Ladysmith, 3370 OR Hand
Deliver to: 32 Lyell Street, Ladysmith, 3370 or Email to
UthukelaDistrictHealth.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za and apply online
Siyathesha Waya Waya eservice.
NOTE : This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose
aim is to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. Note: The contents of this Circular Minute must be brought to the
notice of all eligible officers and employees on your establishment of all
Institutions. Institutions must notify all candidates who qualify for post in this
circular minute even if they are absent from their normal places of work to
apply. Direction to Candidates: the following documents must be submitted:
Application for Employment form (Z83) which is obtainable from any
Government Department OR from the website - www.kznhealth.gov.za.The
application form (Z83) must be completed in full and accompanied by a detailed
Curriculum Vitae only. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the
day of the interview following communication from Human Resources. The
reference number must be indicated in the column provided on the form Z83
and on the back of the envelope, e.g. Ref 13/2018. NB: Failure to comply with
the above instructions will be disqualify applicants. Person with disabilities
should feel free to apply for these posts. The appointment is subject to positive
outcome obtained from the NIA the following checks (security clearance, credit
records, qualification, citizenship and previous experience employment
verification). Failure to comply will result in the application not being
considered”. Due to the large number of applications, receipt of applications
will not be acknowledged. However, correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Please note that due to financial constraint no S&T
claims will be considered for payment to the candidates that are invited for an
interview. African Males are encouraged to apply due to employment equity
target. Please note that due to financial constraint no resettlement fees will be
considered for payment to the candidates who are offered the positions. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/99 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER (PHC) REF NO: SHAK 01/2026 (X2
POSTS)
Component: Shakaskraal Clinic
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 - R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 - R752 913 per annum
Plus 8% rural allowance Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical aid (optional),
and Housing Allowance (Employee must meet prescribed requirements).
CENTRE : Ilembe Health District Office (KwaDukuza Primary Health Care)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum Requirements for the post: Grade 1: Matric Certificate or Grade 12
(Senior Certificate) Diploma or Degree in General Nursing Science and
Midwifery that allows registration with SANC as a General Nurse, plus (1) year
post basic qualification in Clinical Nursing Science, Health Assessment,
Treatment and Care (PHC) plus, Registration Certificate with SANC as a
111
General Nurse with Midwifery and Primary Health Care, plus, Current
Registration with SANC (2024) A minimum of 4 years appropriate/ recognizable
nursing experience as s General Nurse. Minimum Requirements for the post:
Grade 2: Matric Certificate or Grade 12 (Senior Certificate) Diploma or Degree
in General Nursing Science and Midwifery that allows registration with SANC
as a General Nurse, plus (1) year post basic qualification in Clinical Nursing
Science, Health Assessment, Treatment and Care (PHC Registration
Certificate with SANC as a General Nurse with Midwifery and Primary Health
Care, plus, Current Registration with SANC (2024). A minimum of 14 years
appropriate/ recognizable nursing experience after registration as s General
Nurse with SANC of which 10 years of the period must be appropriate/
recognizable PHC experience after obtaining a one year post basic
qualification in Primary Health Care. NB: Please note that most of the Clinics
in KwaDukuza Sub District operates from 07h00 to 18h00. KwaDukuza Clinic
operates over 24 hours, Mpumelelo and Groutville Clinic operates on call after
18h00. Staff may be requested to relieve/ allocated in any of the nine (09)
facilities within the Sub District if and when the need arises. Knowledge, Skills,
Training and Competence Required: Knowledge of all applicable legislations
such as Nursing Acts, Mental Acts, OH & S Act, Batho Pele Principles and
Patient’s Rights Charter, Labour Relations Act, Grievance procedure, etc.
Leadership, organizational, decision making and problem solving, conflict
handling and counselling. Good listening and communication skills. Co-
ordination and planning skills. Team building and supervisory skills. Good
interpersonal relationship skills. Good insight of procedures and policies
pertaining to nursing care. Ability to assist in information of patient care related
policies.
DUTIES : Provide quality comprehensive Primary Health Care by providing promotive,
preventive, curative and rehabilitative services for the clients and community.
Ensuring proper utilization and safekeeping of basic medical equipment,
surgical and pharmaceutical stock. Assist in orientation, induction and
monitoring of all nursing staff. Provide direct and indirect supervision of all
nursing staff and to give guidance. To provide nursing care that leads to
improved health service delivery by upholding principles of Batho Pele.
Execute duties and functions with proficiency and perform duties according to
scope of practice. Implement infection control standards and practices to
improve quality nursing care. Assist with conducting clinical audits and
developing quality improvement plans. Improve the knowledge of staff and
patients through health education and in service training. Implement Nursing
care standards, and practices for quality nursing care according to guidelines
and prescripts. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and
other stakeholders, implementation of the Integrated Multi Stakeholder Health
Promotion Strategy. Management of patients records, both written and
electronic. Ensuring proper utilization of Human, material and financial
resources and keeping up to date records of resources. Ability to plan and
organise own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care
in the clinic. Motivate junior staff regarding development in order to increase
level of expertise and assist patients to develop a sense of self-care.
Strengthen data systems and treatment outcomes by assisting and capturing
on Tier.net. Ensure the collection, collation and timeous submission of accurate
verified data. Support the realisation and maintenance of an ideal Clinic and
OHSC Programme in the facility.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs R Bhagwandin Tel No: (032) 437 3500
APPLICATIONS : Please forward all applications to: The Director: Human Resource
Management Services, ILembe Health District Office, Private Bag X10620,
KwaDukuza, 4450 OR Hand delivered to: corner of 1 King Shaka Street and
Cato Street, King Shaka Centre, KwaDukuza 4450 or e-mail to:
mandla.mthembu@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Mr M.D Mthembu
NOTE : Directions to Candidates: The following documents must be submitted, the
most recent Z83 application form for employment which is obtainable at any
Government Department or the website: www.kznhealth.gov.za, The Z83 form
must be completed in full. The reference number must be indicated in provided
form Z83 e g. EMRSILE 01/2024. Detailed Curriculum Vitae (CV). Information
such as Educational qualification dates(s) of registration with council, relevant
work experience and periods in service should be clearly indicated on the CV.
Applicants are not required to submit Copies of qualification and other relevant
documents on application. Such documents will be requested from shortlisted
112
candidates only. Applications must be submitted on or before the closing date.
Please note that due to the number of applications anticipated, applications will
not be acknowledged. Correspondence will be limited to short listed candidates
only. If you have not been contacted within two months after the closing date
of the advertisement, please accept that your application was unsuccessful.
The appointment is subject to positive outcome obtained from NIA to the
following checks (security clearance, credit records, qualification, citizenship
and previous experience employment verifications and verification from the
company Intellectual Property (CIPC). The Department reserves the right not
to fill the post (s). Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post.
Further, respective successful candidate will be required to enter into a
permanent employment contract with the Department of Health and a
Performance Agreement with his/her immediate supervisor. Applicants are
respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is received within 3
months after the closing date, they must accept that their applications were
unsuccessful. The Department Reserves the Right to or not to make
appointment(s) to the advertised post(s) Applicants in possession of a foreign
qualifications are not required to submit Copies of qualifications and other
relevant documents on application. Such documents will be requested only if
shortlisted. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026
POST 28/100 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER GRADE 1 OR GRADE 2 REF NO: OTH
NONDA CLIC 01/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423.per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th cheque, Medical Aid (Optional), Home owner’s allowance
(employee must meet prescribed Requirements) and 12% Rural Allowance
CENTRE : Othobothini Community Health Centre (Nondabuya Clinic).
REQUIREMENTS : Senior certificate/STD 10/Grade 12. Basic R425 qualification (diploma/degree
in nursing or equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse and Midwife.1 year post basic qualification in Clinical
Nursing Science, Assessment, Diagnosis, Treatment and Care accredited with
SANC. Clinical Nurse Practitioner Grade 1: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with SANC in General Nursing. Clinical Nurse Practitioner
Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years appropriate/recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with SANC in General
Nursing. 10 years of experience of the experience referred to above must be
appropriate / recognisable experience after obtaining a 1–year Post Basic
qualification in Clinical Nursing Science, Assessment, Diagnosis, Treatment
and Care accredited with SANC. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
Competencies Required: Knowledge of nursing care and procedures,
Knowledge of SANC Rules and Regulations and other relevant Legal
framework. Knowledge of Quality Assurance Programmes, Batho-Pele
principles and Patient Rights charter, Human Resource Management and
Basic Financial Management skills. Leadership, supervisory and report writing
skills. Good communication, counselling, interpersonal relations, conflict
management, decision making and problem solving skills.
DUTIES : Ensure the efficient and effective control of surgical sundries, pharmaceuticals,
equipment and miscellaneous stores. Promote preventive and promote health
for clients in the facility. Maintain accurate and complete patients’ records
according to legal requirements. Assist in compiling and updating of procedural
guidelines. Identify problems and areas of improvement and communicate with
the Operational Manager. Deal with grievances and labour relations issues in
terms of laid down procedures/policies. Provide direct and indirect supervision
of junior staff and give guidance for quality patient care. Implement infection
control standards and practices to improve quality health care. Initiate
treatment and ensure evaluation of patients’ clinical conditions. Participate in
health promotion activities in the clinic and in community. Assess in-service
training needs, plan and implement training. Participate in data management
processes. Participate in the attainment of National Core Standards, realisation
of ideal clinic (ICRM), PSI and Surveys on PEC and waiting time.
113
ENQUIRIES : Mr. S.R Dlamini Tel No: (035) 572 9002
APPLICATIONS : to be hand deliver to Othobothini CHC HR Department next to Msiyane High
School, Jozini, 3969. Or email to Sabelo.Mchunu@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the Application for Employment Form (Z83),
which is obtainable at any Government Department or from website-
www.kzhealth.gov.za Applicants are not required to submit Copies of
educational qualifications and Professional registration certificates such
documents will be requested only from shortlisted candidates. People with
disabilities should feel free to apply. Reference numbers must be indicated on
the space provided. Please note that appointment will be subject to positive
outcome obtained from NIA on the following checks: security clearance, credit
record, qualifications, citizenship, and previous experience verification. Should
you not hear from us three months after the closing date, please accept that
your application was not successful. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/101 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (SPECIALTY OPHTHALMIC) REF NO:
NMH/PNO/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum, Plus Rural Allowance 8% Benefits:
13th Cheque/ Service Bonus Medical Aid (Optional Homeowners Allowance:
Employee must meet prescribed requirements.
Grade 2: R607 350 – R752 913 per annum, Plus Rural Allowance 8% Benefits:
13th Cheque/ Service Bonus Medical Aid (Optional Homeowners Allowance:
Employee must meet prescribed requirements
CENTRE : Niemeyer Memorial Hospital (Eye Clinic)
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Experience: A minimum of 4 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General nursing. Grade 2: Experience: A minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with SANC in General nursing. At least 10 years of the
period referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience after
obtaining the one post Basic qualification in Ophthalmic Nursing. STD 10 or
grade12 Certificate. Degree / Diploma in General Nursing or equivalent
qualification that allows registration with SANC as a Professional Nurse. One
year Post Basic Registration Degree/Diploma in Ophthalmic nursing plus 4
years appropriate/recognisable registration experience as a general nurse.
Current registration with South African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse
Specialty (2026 SANC receipt). Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Require: Knowledge of nursing care processes and procedures, nursing
statutes, and other relevant legal frameworks such as: Nursing Act, Health Act,
Occupational Health & Safety Act, Patient Rights Charter, Batho-Pele
principles. Public Service Regulations, Labour Act, Disciplinary Code and
Procedure, Grievance Procedure, etc. Good communication skills; report
writing skills; facilitation skills; coordination skills; liaison skills; networking
skills; problem solving skills; Information management; knowledge
management; planning & organising; computer literacy.
DUTIES : Maintain a therapeutic relationship and environment in which health care can
be provided optimally and safety. Create and maintain a complete and accurate
nursing record for individual health care users. Participate in health promotion
and illness prevention initiatives and contribute to their evaluation. Maintain a
plan to improve the quality of nursing and health care. Implement quality
improvement plan. Maintain a professional and ethical as well as an enabling
environment for ethical practice. Protect and advocate right of patients
regarding health care. Diagnose and manage conditions related to eyes.
Implement patient care standards, policies and procedures. Compliance and
adherence to the relevant acts/prescript applicable within the nursing
environment. Apply the principles of nursing care in service rendering for the
maintenance of professional excellence. Implement nursing care management
activities according to the Standard of Practice and Scope of Practice and act
upon breaching of laws relating to nursing practice and professional code of
conduct and practice standard. Implement quality improvement plan, the
Nursing Act and Regulations, the Code of Ethics and Professional Practice of
114
the South African Nursing Council. Implement procedure that maintain effective
infection control and occupational and safety measures in accordance with
Occupational Health and safety legislation. Maintain accountability and
responsibility for nursing care activities.
ENQUIRIES : Mrs. G.N Nkosi Tel No: (034) 331 3011
APPLICATIONS : Please forward applications quoting reference number to: Human Resource
Management, Niemeyer Memorial Hospital, Private Bag X1004, Utrecht, 2980
or email: Niemeyer.Intern@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : Directions to Candidates: The following documents must be submitted:
Applications are not required to submit copies of qualification and other
relevant document on application but must submit the Employment Form (Z83)
and the detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of certificates and other
relevant documents will only be requested from shortlisted candidate on or
before the interviews. Therefore, only shortlisted candidates for a post will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview,
following communication from HR. It will be expected candidate(s) to be
available for interview process on a day, all shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The reference number must be indicated in the column provided
on form Z83 e.g. Reference Number (NMH/THRT2026) Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post Failure to comply with the
above instructions will disqualify the applicants. The appointment is subject to
positive outcome obtained from the State Security Agency (SAA) to the
following checks (criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship),
verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous
experience from Employers. Please note that due to a large number of
applications received, applications will not be acknowledged; however, only the
short-listed applicants will be advised of the outcome. Applicants are
respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is received within 3
months after the closing date, they must accept that their applications were
unsuccessful. Please note that no S&T payments will be considered for
payment to candidates that are Invited for interview. (This Department is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity at all levels of different Occupational Categories in the
Department). Employment Equity Target for both posts African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 26 August 2026
POST 28/102 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER (NAASFARM CLINIC) REF NO:
DANCHC 04/2026 (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 – R752 913 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional), Inhospitable Allowance:
8% and Housing allowance: Prescribed requirements to be met.
CENTRE : Naas Farm Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Experience A minimum of 4 years appropriate /recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: Experience A minimum of 14 years appropriate
/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse
with SANC in General nursing, of which at least 10 years must be appropriate
/recognisable experience after obtaining the one year post basic qualification
in Primary Health Care Grade 12(Senior Certificate), Standard 10/ or National
Certificate plus basic R 425 qualification i.e. Degree/Diploma in nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse. Post Basic qualification with the duration of at least 1 year in Curative
Skills in Primary Health Care accredited with the SANC. Current registration
with SANC as Professional Nurse and Primary Health Care and a minimum of
4 years appropriate /recognisable experience after registration as Professional
Nurse in General Nursing. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Required for the post: Relevant legal framework such as Nursing Acts,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Batho Pele and Patient’s Rights Charter,
Labour Relations etc. Disciplinary code, human resources policies, hospital
generic and specific policies. Sound knowledge of the National Core Standards
(OHSC) and Data Management. Sound knowledge of the health programmes
run at the PHC level. Ability to relieve in the service areas. Co-ordination and
115
planning skills. Team building and supervisory skills. Good communication and
problem-solving skills. Knowledge of all applicable legislation guidelines and
policies related to nursing principles. Good interpersonal relationship and
listening skills.
DUTIES : Implement and advocate for programmes initiative for clients and the
community served by the clinic. Supervision of patients and provision of basic
needs e.g. oxygen availability, nutrition, elimination, fluids and electrolyte
balance, safe and therapeutic environment in the clinic. Ensure proper usage
and understanding of relevant guidelines, policies and protocols e.g. IMCI, EDL
booklet etc. Ensure clinical intervention to clients including proper
administration of prescribed medication and ongoing observation of patients in
the clinic. Implement health programmes within the PHC package, monitor
performance and outcomes against the set targets by the Department and act
on deviations. Ensure accurate data generation/ collection, verification and
submission to FIO timeously. Motivate staff regarding development in order to
increase level of expertise and assist patients to develop sense of care. Ensure
effective implementation of National Core Standards (OHSC) and Ideal Clinic
Realisation. Demonstrate effective communication with patients, supervisors
and other clinicians, Including report writing. Assist Operational Manager with
overall management and necessary support for effective functioning in the
clinic. Work as part of a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good Nursing Care in
the clinic. Be able to plan and organise own work and that of support personnel
to ensure proper Nursing Caren in the clinic. Ensure proper utilisation and safe
keeping of basic Medical, Surgical, Pharmaceutical and other stock.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VP Nene Tel No: (034) 621 6100
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to Assistant Director: HRM; KZN:
Department of Health; Hand delivery to: Dannhauser Community Health
Centre; No 7 Durnacol Road; Dannhauser, 3080. Email Address:
DannhauserCHC.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za or
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs DBP Buthelezi
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application for employment
form (Z83-fully completed) and Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents and proof of current
registration with the respective council on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The Reference Number must be indicated in the column (Part A)
provided thereof on the Z83 form. NB: Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. Faxed applications will not be accepted.
Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The
appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records and citizenship, verification of educational
qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
Applicants are respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is
received within 3 months after the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Preference will be given to African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
POST 28/103 : CLINICAL NURSE PRACTITIONER (GREENOCK CLINIC) REF NO:
DANCHC 05/2026NO (X1 POST)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 – R752 913 per annum
Other Benefits: 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional), Inhospitable Allowance:
8% and Housing allowance: Prescribed requirements to be met.
CENTRE : Greenock Clinic
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 1: Experience: A minimum of 4 years appropriate /recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with SANC in
General Nursing. Grade 2: Experience: A minimum of 14 years appropriate
/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse
with SANC in General nursing, of which at least 10 years must be appropriate
/recognisable experience after obtaining the one year post basic qualification
116
in Primary Health Care Grade 12(Senior Certificate), Standard 10/ or National
Certificate plus basic R 425 qualification i.e. Degree/Diploma in nursing or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with SANC as a Professional
Nurse. Post Basic qualification with the duration of at least 1 year in Curative
Skills in Primary Health Care accredited with the SANC. Current registration
with SANC as Professional Nurse and Primary Health Care and a minimum of
4 years appropriate /recognisable experience after registration as Professional
Nurse in General Nursing. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Required for the post: Relevant legal framework such as Nursing Acts,
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Batho Pele and Patient’s Rights Charter,
Labour Relations etc. Disciplinary code, human resources policies, hospital
generic and specific policies. Sound knowledge of the National Core Standards
(OHSC) and Data Management. Sound knowledge of the health programmes
run at the PHC level. Ability to relieve in the service areas. Co-ordination and
planning skills. Team building and supervisory skills. Good communication and
problem-solving skills. Knowledge of all applicable legislation guidelines and
policies related to nursing principles. Good interpersonal relationship and
listening skills.
DUTIES : Implement and advocate for programmes initiative for clients and the
community served by the clinic. Supervision of patients and provision of basic
needs e.g. oxygen availability, nutrition, elimination, fluids and electrolyte
balance, safe and therapeutic environment in the clinic. Ensure proper usage
and understanding of relevant guidelines, policies and protocols e.g. IMCI, EDL
booklet etc. Ensure clinical intervention to clients including proper
administration of prescribed medication and ongoing observation of patients in
the clinic. Implement health programmes within the PHC package, monitor
performance and outcomes against the set targets by the Department and act
on deviations. Ensure accurate data generation/ collection, verification and
submission to FIO timeously. Motivate staff regarding development in order to
increase level of expertise and assist patients to develop sense of care. Ensure
effective implementation of National Core Standards (OHSC) and Ideal Clinic
Realisation. Demonstrate effective communication with patients, supervisors
and other clinicians, including report writing. Assist Operational Manager with
overall management and necessary support for effective functioning in the
clinic. Work as part of a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good Nursing Care in
the clinic. Be able to plan and organise own work and that of support personnel
to ensure proper Nursing Caren in the clinic. Ensure proper utilisation and safe
keeping of basic Medical, Surgical, Pharmaceutical and other stock.
ENQUIRIES : Mr VP Nene Tel No: (034) 621 6100
APPLICATIONS : All applications should be forwarded to Assistant Director: HRM; KZN:
Department of Health; Hand delivery to: Dannhauser Community Health
Centre; No 7 Durnacol Road; Dannhauser, 3080. Email Address:
DannhauserCHC.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za or
www.kznonline.gov.za/kznjobs
FOR ATTENTION : Mrs DBP Buthelezi
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application for employment
form (Z83-fully completed) and Curriculum Vitae. Only shortlisted candidates
for a post will be required to submit certified documents and proof of current
registration with the respective council on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The Reference Number must be indicated in the column (Part A)
provided thereof on the Z83 form. NB: Failure to comply with the above
instructions will disqualify applicants. Faxed applications will not be accepted.
Persons with disabilities should feel free to apply for the post. The
appointments are subject to positive outcomes obtained from the State
Security Agency (SSA) to the following checks security clearance (vetting),
criminal clearance, credit records and citizenship, verification of educational
qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous experience from Employers
and verification from the Company Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC).
Applicants are respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is
received within 3 months after the closing date, they must accept that their
applications were unsuccessful. Preference will be given to African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
117
POST 28/104 : FINANCE MANAGEMENT OFFICER (REVENUE) REF NO: NMH/FMO//2026
(X1 POST)
SALARY : R338 106 – R398 277 per annum (Level 07). Other Benefits: 13th Cheque/
Service Bonus Medical Aid (Optional) Homeowners Allowance: Employee must
meet prescribed requirements.
CENTRE : Niemeyer Memorial Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : STD 10 or Grade12 Certificate. Appropriate Degree/National Diploma. 1- 3
years’ Experience in finance Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies
Require: Knowledge of Finance. Knowledge of filing system. Computer literacy.
Verbal & written communication skills. Finance management. Knowledge of
petty cash.
DUTIES : Maintain a user-friendly filing system of accounts. Responsible for all final
revenue correspondence, write off, account payments categories. Monitor the
collection of revenue from all patients. Maintain procedures regarding the use
of safe and check receipt book. Maintain effective and efficient utilization of
staff. Make follow ups on patient’s accounts and medical aids schemes. Record
of debtors and creditors. Compile reconcile of all financial reports and submit
to Head Office. Ensure safe guarding of state monies collected. Manage
patients’ accounts and ensure compliance. Conduct revenue inspections and
identity financial risks. Supervise revenue operations and ensure efficient
billing and collections.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. NR Mtshali Tel No: (034) 331 3011
APPLICATIONS : Please forward applications quoting reference number to: Human Resource
Management, Niemeyer Memorial Hospital, Private Bag X1004, Utrecht, 2980
or email: Niemeyer.Intern@kznhealth.gov.za
NOTE : Directions to Candidates: The following documents must be submitted:
Applications are not required to submit copies of qualification and other
relevant document on application but must submit the Employment Form (Z83)
and the detailed Curriculum Vitae. Certified copies of certificates and other
relevant documents will only be requested from shortlisted candidate on or
before the interviews. Therefore only shortlisted candidates for a post will be
required to submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview
following communication from HR. It will be expected candidate(s) to be
available for interview process on a day, all shortlisted candidates, including
the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment. The reference number must be indicated in the column provided
on form Z83 e.g. Reference Number (NMH/THRT2026) Persons with
disabilities should feel free to apply for the post Failure to comply with the
above instructions will disqualify the applicants. The appointment is subject to
positive outcome obtained from the State Security Agency (SAA) to the
following checks (criminal clearance, credit records, and citizenship),
verification of Educational Qualifications by SAQA, verification of previous
experience from Employers. Please note that due to a large number of
applications received, applications will not be acknowledged, however, only the
short-listed applicants will be advised of the outcome. Applicants are
respectfully informed that, if no notification of appointment is received within 3
months after the closing date, they must accept that their applications were
unsuccessful. Please note that no S&T payments will be considered for
payment to candidates that are Invited for interview. (This Department is an
equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representivity at all levels of different Occupational Categories in the
Department). Employment Equity Target for both posts African Male.
CLOSING DATE : 26 August 2026
POST 28/105 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER:(ILS)/ECA GRADE3 REF NO: EMSUTHUK
(X4 POSTS)
SALARY : R226 701 per annum. Plus 13th Cheque, Medical Aid (Optional) and Housing
Allowance (Employee must meet prescribed requirements)
CENTRE : Uthukela District Office
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 with science subjects. Intermediate Life Support Certificate (AEA).
Current registration with Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA)
as an Ambulance Emergency Assistant. Current registration with HPCSA (Valid
card will be accepted, deposit slip will not be accepted). Unendorsed drivers, s
118
license code C1 with a professional driving permit (receipt of renewal will not
be accepted) Computer Certificate- Ms Office (Word, Excel, Outlook &
PowerPoint) will be an added advantage Current Registration with SANC. Valid
Driver’s License – Code 8 plus. Only Shortlisted candidates will be required to
submit proof of experience/ service certificate endorsed by HR Department
Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competencies Required: Strong interpersonal
and communication skills. Report writing. Knowledge on District Health
Systems. Knowledge of relevant regulation and policies. An understanding of
challenges facing the Public Health sector. Ability to translate and transform
objectives into practical plan. Leadership, organisational, decision-making and
problem-solving abilities within the DHS framework.
DUTIES : The incumbents of these posts will report to the EMS shift leader: Emergency
Medical Services and will be responsible to provide pre-hospital treatment
within the scope of Basic Life Support and transport patients to an appropriate
health facility to minimize the loss of lives. The ideal candidate must: Possess
knowledge of Intermediate Life Support Protocol understand EMS and its line
of business. Possess knowledge of Basic Medical rescue. Possess knowledge
of Rules and Regulations of Road Traffic Ordinance. Possess good
communication skills. Have practical Patience Management skills. Could
implement emergency procedures. Can work under pressure. Be able to
operate in any EMS environment i.e. Emergency Ambulances Obstetrics
ambulance, inter-facility ambulances, communication Centres, Rescue or
Patient, Transport services as per the allocation or deployment by the
management of EMS. Be flexible to be deployed to any shifty as per service
delivery needs. Be available for the Disaster Relief Emergency deployments
nationally and/or internationally.
ENQURIES : Mr.ET Kubheka Tel No: (036) 638 4816
APPLICATIONS : All Applications Should Be Forwarded To: The Human Resource Manager:
UThukela Health District Office, Private Bag X9958, Ladysmith, 3370 OR Hand
Deliver to: 32 Lyell Street, Ladysmith 3370 or email your application
UthukelaDistrictHealth.HRJobApplication@kznhealth.gov.za
FOR ATTENTION : Deputy Director: HRM
NOTE : This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose
aim is to promote representivity in all levels of all occupational categories in the
Department. Note: The contents of this Circular Minute must be brought to the
notice of all eligible officers and employees on your establishment of all
Institutions. Institutions must notify all candidates who qualify for post in this
circular minute even if they are absent from their normal places of work to
apply. Direction to Candidates: the following documents must be submitted:
Application for Employment form (Z83) which is obtainable from any
Government Department OR from the website - www.kznhealth.gov.za.The
application form (Z83) must be completed in full and accompanied by a detailed
Curriculum Vitae only. Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit
certified copies of qualifications and other related documents on or before the
day of the interview following communication from Human Resources. The
reference number must be indicated in the column provided on the form Z83
and on the back of the envelope, e.g. Ref 13/2018. NB: Failure to comply with
the above instructions will be disqualify applicants. Person with disabilities
should feel free to apply for these posts. The appointment is subject to positive
outcome obtained from the NIA the following checks (security clearance, credit
records, qualification, citizenship and previous experience employment
verification). Failure to comply will result in the application not being
considered”. Due to the large number of applications, receipt of applications
will not be acknowledged. However, correspondence will be limited to
shortlisted candidates only. Please note that due to financial constraint no S&T
claims will be considered for payment to the candidates that are invited for an
interview. African Males are encouraged to apply due to employment equity
target. Please note that due to financial constraint no resettlement fees will be
considered for payment to the candidates who are offered the positions. All
shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry
assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a candidate’s
suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements and the other
must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
119
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity, affirmative action
employer and preference will be given to previously disadvantaged groups.
APPLICATIONS : KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Treasury, P O Box 3613, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 or
145 Chief Albert Luthuli Road Pietermaritzburg, 3200. Applications can also be
submitted via the e-services system please assess this site on
(eservices.gov.za)
FOR ATTENTION : Ms N Cele
CLOSING DATE : 25 August 2026
NOTE : The new Z83 form must be used effective 1st January 2021 and can be
downloaded at www.dpsa.gov.za-vacancies. The Z83 Must Be Completed In
Full. Application must be accompanied by a detailed CV Only the provisionally
shortlisted candidates will be requested to submit supporting documents
(certified copies of qualifications, drivers license etc.) All shortlisted candidates,
including SMS, shall undertake to pre-entry assessments. One will be a
practical exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s
technical and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical
conduct) assessment. Applicants need to ensure that they obtain and submit
their foreign qualifications verified with SAQA if shortlisted or provisionally
shortlisted. Non-South African citizens or permanent residency holders, if
provisionally shortlisted, will be required to submit proof of citizenship. All
shortlisted candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise
and interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of
three (3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity. The Department will also conduct reference checks with HR of current
/previous employer(s), besides the references provided on the CV. Candidates
will be subjected to security screening and a technical assessment. Under no
circumstances will be faxed, emailed and late applications be accepted. The
Department discourages applications sent via registered mail and will not be
held responsible for applications that are not collected from the post office. It is
the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the application reaches the
Department timeously. Regrettably, due to excessive budget cuts, the
department is not in a position to meet any travel subsistence costs relating to
recruitment processes, or relocation and resettlement costs for successful
candidates. Should you not hear from the Department within 3 months of the
closing date, please regard your application as unsuccessful. Candidates who
do not comply with the above mentioned will not be considered.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/106 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INTERNAL AUDIT CLUSTER REF NO: KZNPT 26/24
(X3 POSTS)
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all- inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3 year NQF Level 7 qualification such as B-Tech Internal Audit, B-Tech
Accounting/ Cost Management (with internal audit), B-Tech: Taxation (with
internal audit), Advanced Diploma in Accounting Sciences: Internal Auditing,
Advanced Diploma – Accountancy / Internal Auditing Stream, BCom in Internal
Auditing / BCom (Accounting with Internal Audit), BCompt (Bachelor of
Accounting Science), Internal Audit Technician / Occupational Certificate:
Internal Audit Membership of Institute of Internal Auditors South Africa (II A SA).
A Valid Driver’s License and in the case of people living with disabilities who
cannot personally drive, the department will assist them to meet work related
travel commitments. A minimum of 3 years’ experience in junior management
conducting or providing technical support in Internal/ external auditing. Skills,
Knowledge And Competencies: Knowledge of public sector, local government
and public/private entities systems and relevant legislation/statutes, including:
Constitution, PFMA and Treasury Regulations, PSRF (Public Service
Regulatory Framework), Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Auditing, General Recognised Accounting Principles, Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, MTEF budget compilation and analysis, Performance
Auditing techniques, Enterprise Risk Management, Teammate Audit system.
Verbal and written communication abilities. Problem-solving. Analytical and
120
numeracy. Auditing and report writing Quantitative method tools. Good
interpersonal relations. Research. Report writing. Time management. Change
management. Policy analysis and development. Statistical and quantitative
analysis. Financial management. People management. Strategic planning.
Chairing of meetings. Computer skills: Spreadsheets (MS Excel), word
processing (MS Word), Power Point (MS Office), internet and intranet.
DUTIES : Develop and review strategic and annual plans for Internal Audit services for
the Provincial Departments based on the results of the Provincial or
Departmental risk assessments. Develop and maintain methodologies, policies
and procedure manuals for Internal Audit services. Manage the implementation
of Internal Audit projects, policies, methodologies and procedure manuals.
Manage and provide value adding recommendations for improving the
institutions governance, risks and controls and monitor the implementation
thereof. Maintain relationships with client management and internal and
external stakeholders. Manage the resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nkgabutle Tel No: (033) 897 4429
NOTE : Preferences: African Females, African Males Females and people with
disabilities who meet the requirements.
POST 28/107 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL AUDITS REF NO: KZNPT 26/25
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all- inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A NQF Level 7 Qualification (Bachelor’s degree, Bachelor of Technology or
Advanced Diploma) in Auditing and Accounting/Accounting/ Accounting
Sciences in Financial Accounting / Accounting Sciences in Internal Auditing /
Financial Accounting / Internal Auditing. Membership of Institute of Internal
Auditors South Africa (II A SA) or South African Institute of Chartered
Accountants (SAICA). A minimum of 3- years’ junior management experience
in conducting or providing technical support in internal /external auditing. A
valid Driver’s License. People with disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will
be assisted by the department to meet work related travel obligations. Skills,
Knowledge And Competencies: Constitution PFMA and Treasury Regulations
PSRF (Public Service Regulatory Framework) Standards for the Professional
Practice of Internal Auditing General Recognised Accounting Principles
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Modified Cash Standard MTEF
budget compilation and analysis Enterprise Risk Management Teammate Audit
system Verbal and written communication abilities Problem-solving Analytical
and numeracy Auditing and report writing Quantitative method tools Good
interpersonal relations Research Report writing Project planning and
management Change management Time management Policy analysis and
development Statistical and quantitative analysis Financial management
People management Strategic planning Chairing of meetings Computer skills:
Spreadsheets (MS Excel), word processing (MS Word), Power Point (MS
Office), internet and intranet.
DUTIES : Develop and review the strategic and annual plans for Internal Audit services
for the Provincial Departments based on the results for the Provincial or
Departmental risk assessments. Develop and maintain methodologies, policies
and procedure manuals for Internal Audit services. Manage the implementation
of Internal Audit projects, policies, methodologies and procedure manuals.
Manage and provide value adding recommendations for improving the
institutions governance, risks and controls and monitor the implementation
thereof. Maintain relationships with client management and internal and
external stakeholders. Manage the resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nkgabutle Tel No: (033) 897 4429
NOTE : Preferences: African Females, African Males Females and people with
disabilities who meet the requirements.
POST 28/108 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AUDITING REF NO:
KZNPT 26/24
(12 Months Contract)
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (all- inclusive package)
CENTRE : KZN Provincial Treasury, Pietermaritzburg
REQUIREMENTS : A 3-year NQF level 7 qualification or higher with in in Information Systems,
Information Technology, Informatics or Computer Science. A Minimum of 3-
121
years junior management level experience in IT auditing. Membership of
Institute of Internal Auditors South Africa (II A SA) / Information Systems Audit
and Control Association (ISACA)) and Certified Information System Auditor
(CISA) will be an added advantage. A valid Driver’s License. People with
disabilities without valid driver’s licenses will be assisted by the department to
meet work related travel obligations. Skills, Knowledge And Competencies:
Treasury Regulations, PFMA (Public Financial Management Act), PSRF
(Public Service Regulations Framework), MTEF (Medium Term Expenditure
Framework), General Recognized Accounting Principles (GRAP), Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), IT Auditing techniques, Standards for
the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, Enterprise Risk Management, IT
Governance, SEKCHEK (Security checking system), Teammate system,
Information Security, Application and Operating Systems Control , Computer
Assisted Auditing Techniques (CAAT) System, Control Objective for
Information and Related Technology (COBIT), Information Technology
Infrastructure Library (ITIL). Strategic planning, Communication, Facilitation,
Presentation, Innovative, Decisiveness, Business process re-engineering,
Auditing and Report writing, Computer literacy, Interpersonal relations,
Analytical and quantitative method, Financial management, Time
management, Project management, Policy analysis and development, Conflict
management.
DUTIES : Develop and revise the strategic and annual plans for Internal Audit services
for the Provincial Departments based on the results for the Provincial or
Departmental risk assessments. Manage the development and maintenance
of methodologies, policies and procedure manuals for Internal Audit services
based on the results of the Departmental/Provincial risk assessments. Manage
the implementation of IT Audit projects, policies, methodologies and procedure
manuals. Manage and provide value adding recommendations for improving
the institutions governance, risks and controls and monitor the implementation
thereof. Maintain relationships with client management and internal and
external stakeholders. Manage the resources.
ENQUIRIES : Ms K Nkgabutle Tel No: (033) 897 4429
NOTE : Preferences: African Females, African Males Females and people with
disabilities who meet the requirements.
122
ANNEXURE U
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: LIMPOPO
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
APPLICATIONS : Quoting the relevant references `applications should be forwarded to the
relevant District Capricorn North, The District Director Capricorn North
Education District Private Bag X9711, Polokwane, 0700. Cnr Blaauwberg &
Yster Street Ladanna, Polokwane.
Capricorn South: The District Director Capricorn South Education District
Private Bag X03cChueniespoort, 0745. Old Parliament Complex,
Lebowakgomo.
The District Director Sekhukhune South: Education District, Private Bag
X70, Lebowakgomo, 0737. Old Parliament Complex, Lebowakgomo.
Mogalakwena Education District: The District Director, Private Bag X601,
Mahwelereng, 0626. 805 Rufus Seakamela Street, Mahwelereng. 0626.
Mopani East Education District: Private Bag X578, Giyani, 0826. Old
Parliament Building, Giyani.
Mopani West The District Director: Mopani West Education District, Private
Bag X4032, Tzaneen, 0850. 27 Peace Street, Prosperitas Building, Tzaneen,
0850.
Sekhukhune East The Acting District Director: Sekhukhune East Education
District, Private Bag X9041, Burgersfort, 1150. 83 Aloe Street, Stand No 2314,
Ext 4 Aloeridge West, Burgersfort, 1150.
Sekhukhune South Education District: The District Director, Private Bag
X70, Lebowakgomo, 0737. Old Parliament Complex, Lebowakgomo.
Vhembe East The Acting District Director: Vhembe East Education District,
Private Bag X2250, Sibasa, 0970. Makwarela Old Parliament Building.
Vhembe West The District Director: Vhembe West Education District,
Private Bag X2250, Sibasa, 0970. Block D Old Parliament Building,
Thohoyandou.
Waterberg The Acting District Director: Waterberg Education District,
Private Bag X1040, Modimolle, 051084. Limpopo Street, NTK Building,
Modimolle, 0510.
Applications submitted via e-Recruitment system through the link a
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026: 14 H00 (Applications received after the closing date and faxed
copies will not be considered).
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the prescribed form Z83 (obtainable from
any Public Service Department office i.e. effective 01 January 2021 or on the
DPSA web site link: https://www.dpsa.gov.za/newsroom/psvc/. Should an
application be received using incorrect application employment form Z83, it will
be disqualified, which must be originally signed and dated by the applicant and
which must be accompanied by a detailed CV only (with full particulars of the
applicants’ training, qualifications, competencies, knowledge & experience).
Only shortlisted candidates will be required to submit certified copies of
qualifications and other related documents on or before the day of the interview
which should not be older than six months. Failure to comply with the above
instructions will result in applications being disqualified If an applicant wishes
to withdraw an application, it must be done in writing. Under no circumstances
will Photostat copies or faxed copies of application documents be accepted.
The successful candidates will be subjected to Personnel Suitability Checks
(criminal record, citizenship & financial/asset record checks and qualification
and employment verification). Successful candidates will also be subjected to
security clearance processes. Applicants who do not receive confirmation or
feedback within 3 (three) months after the closing date, please consider your
application unsuccessful. Due to the large volume of responses anticipated,
receipt of applications will not be acknowledged, and correspondence will be
limited to short-listed candidates only. For more information on the job
description(s) please contact the person indicated in the post details. The
contents of the advertised post will also be posted on the following websites
www.limpopo.gov.za/ www.edu.gov.za / www.dpsa.gov.za. The Department
reserves the right not to make any appointment to the posts advertised. The
employment decision shall be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the
Department. All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
123
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment. All shortlisted
candidates for SMS posts will be subjected to a technical exercise and
interview. Following the technical exercise and interview, a maximum of three
(3) SMS candidates will undergo psychometric assessments to assess
cognitive capabilities, behavioural preferences, emotional intelligence, and
integrity.
MANAGEMENT ECHELON
POST 28/109 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION REF NO: LDOE
163/06/2026
Directorate: Financial Management
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Accounting/Financial Management/Cost and
Management Accounting or Auditing as recognized by SAQA. Post graduate
qualification in the financial management field will be an added advantage.
Minimum of 5 years’ relevant experience at senior managerial level. SMS Pre-
Entry (Nyukela) Certificate prior to appointment. Valid driver’s license with
exception of person with disability. Core and Process Competencies and Skills:
Strategic Capability and Leadership. People Management and Empowerment.
Programme and Project Management. Financial Management. Change
Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication.
Functional computer literacy – MS Word. Excel. PowerPoint and Outlook.
Public Sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Education and
school management regulatory and legislative framework. The financial Public
Sector management reporting requirements.
DUTIES : Oversee the management and provision of financial administration and
accounting services. Oversee salary provision and expenditure management.
Oversee the provision of expenditure management. Oversee the management
of system control services. Oversee the preparation. analysis and submission
of Departmental monthly and quarterly expenditure reports and annual
Financial Statements. Evaluate the performance of the Chief Directorate on a
continuing basis against pre-determined key measurable objectives and
standards; manage the performance of staff and ensure assessment of their
performance; Set clear goals and performance expectations for the team.
ensuring alignment with organisational objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/110 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: INSTITUTIONAL GOVERNANCE AND QUALITY
PROMOTION & STANDARDS REF NO: LDOE 164/06/2026
Branch: District Management & Institutional Governance
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA.A relevant postgraduate
qualification in education/management will be an added advantage. Minimum
of 5 years’ relevant experience at senior managerial level. SMS Pre-Entry
(Nyukela) Certificate upon appointment. Valid driver’s license with the
exception of a person with disability. Strategic Capability and Leadership.
People Management and Empowerment. Programme and Project
Management. Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and Analysis.
Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Functional computer
literacy – MS Word. Excel. PowerPoint and Outlook. Public Sector and its
regulatory and legislative framework. Education and school management
regulatory and legislative framework. The Public Sector management reporting
requirements.
DUTIES : Oversee the maintenance and implementation of appropriate policies and
frameworks for school governance stakeholders. Oversee the management of
school affairs. Oversee the management and co-ordination of norms and
standards for school funding. Oversee the management of school safety and
124
beautification. Oversee the management of provision of Early Childhood
Development (ECD). Co-ordinate the provision of Whole School and Systemic
Evaluation. Co-ordinate the management of evaluation and reporting on
performance of schools. Co-ordinate the management of the setting and
maintenance of standards for teaching. learning and school functionality.
Oversee the annual internal evaluation of schools. Co-ordinate the
development of school improvement plans. Ensure continuous improvement in
the provision of quality public education.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/111 : CHIEF DIRECTOR: DISTRICT MANAGEMENT & SUPPORT (CLUSTER B:
VHEMBE EAST & WEST, MOPANI EAST & WEST AND CAPRICORN
SOUTH DISTRICTS) REF NO: LDOE 165/06/2026
Branch: District Management & Institutional Governance
SALARY : R1 554 696 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A relevant postgraduate
qualification in education/management will be an added advantage. Minimum
of 5 years’ relevant experience at senior managerial level. SMS Pre-Entry
(Nyukela) Certificate upon appointment. Valid driver’s license with exception of
person with disability. Core and Process Competencies: Strategic Capability
and Leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and
Project Management. Financial Management. Change Management.
Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and
Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Functional
computer literacy – MS Word. Excel. PowerPoint and Outlook. Public Sector
and its regulatory and legislative framework. Education and school
management regulatory and legislative framework. The Public Sector
management reporting requirements.
DUTIES : Oversee the management and supervision of district. circuit and school
performance. Oversee district planning and ensure adequate resourcing
districts. Co-ordinate the setting of clear goals and performance expectations
for the district. ensuring alignment with organizational objectives. Oversee
district cooperative functionality and strategic capability and efficient utilization
of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/112 : DIRECTOR: SALARIES & EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
166/06/2026
Branch: Financial Management
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Accounting, Financial Management or Cost
Management as recognized by SAQA. Minimum of 5 years’ relevant
experience at a middle or senior management level. SMS Pre-Entry (Nyukela)
Certificate upon appointment. Valid driver’s license with exception of person
with disability. Core & Process Competencies and Skills: Strategic Capability
and Leadership. People Management and Empowerment. Programme and
Project Management. Financial Management. Change Management.
Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem Solving and
Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication. Functional
computer literacy – MS Word. Excel. PowerPoint and Outlook. In-depth
knowledge of government transversal systems like BAS and PERSAL.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the provision for salaries and wages. Co-ordinate the management
of payroll. Co-ordinate transfers and subsidies. Co-ordinate the management
of expenditure. Oversee the payment of creditors. Oversee the management
of sundry and expenditure. Oversee the management of capital expenditure.
Co-ordinate expenditure reporting which includes amongst others compile
interim/annual financial statements and monthly In-Year Monitoring (IYM)
reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
125
POST 28/113 : DIRECTOR: MOGALAKWENA DISTRICT REF NO: LDOE 167/06/2026
Branch: District Management & Institutional Governance
SALARY : R1 317 384 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A relevant postgraduate
qualification in education/management will be an advantage. Minimum of 5
years’ relevant experience at a middle/senior managerial level. SMS Pre-Entry
(Nyukela) Certificate upon appointment. Valid driver’s license except for people
living with disabilities. Core & Process Competencies. Knowledge and Skills:
Strategic Capability and Leadership. People Management and Empowerment.
Programme and Project Management. Financial Management. Change
Management. Knowledge Management. Service Delivery Innovation. Problem
Solving and Analysis. Client Orientation and Customer Focus. Communication.
Functional computer literacy – MS Word. Excel. PowerPoint and Outlook.
Public Sector and its regulatory and legislative framework. Education and
school management regulatory and legislative framework. The financial Public
Sector management reporting requirements.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate the provision of integrated Basic Education services in
the district. Facilitate and coordinate the provision of curriculum management
and delivery services. and learner support. Facilitate and coordinate the
provision of examination and assessment in all school phases. Facilitate and
coordinate the provision of institutional management governance and support
services. Manage and facilitate the provision of corporate and financial
management services to the District and Circuits. Facilitate effective and
efficient interface between the District and Circuits. Ensure that District Circuits
schools improvement plans and subject improvement plans are linked and
coherent to the National and Provincial departmental plans. Ensure
stakeholder management and cooperation in the district.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/114 : CHIEF ENGINEER GRADE A REF NO: LDOE 168/06/2026
Branch: Physical Resources Management (Infrastructure)
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : B degree in Architecture or relevant qualification as recognised by SAQA. Six
years’ post-qualification architectural experience required. Compulsory
registration with SACAP as a professional Architect. Valid driver’s license
except for people living with disabilities Core & Process Competencies: People
Management and Empowerment. Programme & Project Management.
Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge Management.
Client orientation & Customer focus. Problem Solving & Analysis.
Communication. Functional computer literacy. Knowledge & skills: Computer
skills. Planning, Organising, and Execution Skills.
DUTIES : Perform final review and approvals or audits on new engineering designs
according to design principles or theory. Co-ordinate design efforts and
integration across disciplines to ensure seamless integration with current
technology. Pioneering of new engineering services and management
methods. Maintain engineering operational effectiveness. Manage the
execution of maintenance strategy through the provision of appropriate - 111 -
2010#0601#OSD Engineers And Related (Annexure A) (Updated 20 July
2011).doc structures. systems and resources. Set engineering maintenance
standards. specifications and service levels according to organisational
objectives to ensure optimum operational availability. Monitor maintenance
efficiencies according to organisational goals to direct or redirect engineering
services for the attainment of organisational objectives (c) Governance (i)
Allocate. control. Monitor and report on all resources. Compile risk logs and
manage significant risk according to sound risk management practice and
organisational requirements. Provide technical consulting services for the
operation of engineering-related matters to minimise possible engineering
risks. Manage and implement knowledge sharing initiatives e.g. short-term
assignments and secondments within and across operations. in support of
126
individual development plans. operational requirements and return on
investment. Continuously monitor the exchange and protection of information
between operations and individuals to ensure effective knowledge
management according to departmental objectives. Ensure the availability and
management of funds to meet the MTEF objectives within the engineering
environment/services. Manage the operational capital project portfolio for the
operation to ensure effective resourcing according to organizational needs and
objectives. Manage the commercial value add of the discipline-related
programmes and projects. Facilitate the compilation of innovation proposals to
ensure validity and adherence to organizational principles. Allocate. control
and monitor expenditure according to budget to ensure efficient cash flow
management. Manage the development. motivation and utilization of human
resources for the discipline to ensure competent knowledge base for the
continued success of engineering services according to organizational needs
and requirements. Manage subordinates’ key performance areas by setting
and monitoring performance standards and taking actions to correct deviations
to achieve departmental objectives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/115 : CHIEF ENGINEER: ELECTRICAL GRADE A REF NO: LDOE 169/06/2026
Branch: Physical Resources Management (Infrastructure)
SALARY : R1 317 108 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : An engineering qualification (B Engineering / BSc in Engineering) at NQF level
07 as recognised by SAQA.A Government Certificate of Competency in
Electrical Engineering as a Pr Eng or Pr Tech Eng will serve as an added
advantage. Six 6 years’ relevant experience post qualification. Valid
Registration with professional Engineer - ECSA. Valid driver’s license except
for people living with disabilities. Core & Process Competencies: People
Management and Empowerment. Programme & Project Management.
Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge Management.
Client orientation & Customer focus. Problem Solving & Analysis.
Communication. Functional computer literacy. Knowledge & Skills A good
understanding of all relevant legislation and construction industry contract is
needed. Maintenance skills and knowledge. Thorough knowledge and
experience related to electrical services to buildings. streets and area lighting
as well as HT and LT reticulation systems. Knowledge of and experience in the
implementation of the OHSA is highly recommended.
DUTIES : Provide electrical inputs and guidance which include all aspects of innovative
and complex engineering applications for the development of infrastructure
strategies. policies. system. norms. standards and signing off on electrical
installations. Develop and maintain technical and functional norms and
standards from an engineering perspective. Investigate proposal for innovative
service delivery mechanisms and undertake feasibility studies. Compile
electrical briefing documentation and specifications. Provide inputs to the
determination of the Construction Procurement strategy the User Asset
Management Plan and the Infrastructure Programme Management Plan.
Investigate electrical engineering Installations and oversee commissioning of
electrical engineering installations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/116 : CIRCUIT MANAGER (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: District Management & Institutional Governance
SALARY : R1 151 079 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Makhutswe Circuit Ref No: LDoE 170/06/2026
Lepelle Circuit Ref No: LDoE 171/06/2026
Tsimanyane Circuit Ref No: LDoE 172/06/2026
Groblersdal Circuit Ref No: LDoE 173/06/2026
Malamulele East Circuit Ref No: LDoE 74/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : A recognized three- or four- year qualification. which includes professional
teacher education. A post graduate qualification in education will be an added
advantage. Nine (09) years’ experience in the educational field. Registration
with SACE as a professional educator. Valid driver’s license except for people
127
living with disabilities. Job Purpose: To ensure the effective supervision.
management functionality and performance of schools, in relation to
administration, governance and curriculum delivery through professional and
educational leadership, guidance and development. Competencies.
Knowledge & Skills: Monitoring and evaluation. Performance Management.
Decision making and initiating action. Adhering to principles and values.
Analysis and interpreting. Writing and reporting. Creating. conceptualising and
innovating. Organizing and executing. Coping with pressures and setbacks.
Time management. Knowledge of the constitution as well as other relevant
Acts and Policies. Experience in research on the latest developments related
to curriculum transformation. Knowledge and understanding of ICT in
Education. as it relates to teaching and learning in the classroom. A sound
understanding of curriculum transformation issues and capacity building
processes in education. Interpret. analyse and apply current legislation and
departmental policies. Supervisory. organizational and interpersonal skills.
Proven written and verbal skills. Attention to details and a high level of
accuracy. effective public relations and public speaking skills. Functional
Computer Literacy - MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Supervision and management of school principals in curriculum delivery and
administration of schools; Support school principals. school management
teams and school governing bodies in the management and governance of
schools; Conduct performance reviews and appraisals of principals; Monitor
and support the implementation of performance management systems in
schools; e) Provide support for professional growth of educators in line with the
Circuit Improvement Plan (CIP); Evaluate the physical infrastructure of schools
and communicate to the relevant section of the Department in terms of the
needs of schools; Assist the circuit and the district in ensuring that
examinations and assessments are implemented according to plan; Assist
schools in maintaining a fair labour environment; Manage selection processes
especially the appointment of principals in schools; Guide the process of school
establishment. rationalization and extension of curriculum in the circuit;
Develop a profile of all schools allocated to him/her as per the required format;
Moderate examination schedules; Facilitate and coordinate the effective
running of examinations; Drive the implementation of relevant teaching and
learning initiatives in the districts in line with departmental objectives; Advise
Principals and school management teams on the Departments strategic plans
so as to assist them with the development of school improvement plans in order
to achieve the desired objectives ;Analyse and identify professional. education
and resource needs of districts (including physical. human and financial
resources); and Ensure that Principals manage their budgets in line with the
South African Schools Act and maintain financial records for audit purposes
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664.
POST 28/117 : SENIOR LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: LDOE 575/06/2026
Directorate: Legal Services
SALARY : R610 434 per annum, (all - inclusive package)
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification in LLB/B. Proc as recognized by SAQA.A minimum of
8 years’ appropriate post qualification legal experience. 5 years of which must
be as a practicing Attorney/Advocate in civil litigation in the Lower and High
Courts Admission as an Advocate or Attorney of the High Court of South Africa.
Valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Competencies.
Knowledge and Skills: Sound and in - depth knowledge of relevant prescripts.
application of the legislative framework governing the public service e.g. Public
Service Act, Labour Relation Act and PFMA. Knowledge on the relevant
policies/prescripts and procedures etc. Negotiation skills. Language skills and
ability to communicate well with people at different levels and from different
backgrounds. People management skills. Organizing skills. Time management
Communication. both formal. and informal Good people skills. Problem solving.
High level of reliability. Functional Computer Literacy - MS Word. MS Excel.
MS Power Point and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Provide legal advisory support and legal opinions to the Department. Manage
litigations. audit statements of accounts/invoices. analyze litigation costs to
ensure compliance and conduct targeted awareness training programs based
on litigation trends. Draft. review and amend legal instruments such as
128
legislation. compliance framework. policies. prescripts etc. Draft and vet
contracts. MOU/MOAs etc. for legal compliance in line with the provincial.
national. regional and internationals instruments etc. Manage the effective
utilization of resources (Financial. Physical and Human) in the sub-directorate
in line with the relevant legislation and prescripts etc.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/118 : CHIEF SPEECH THERAPIST GRADE 1 REF NO: LDOE 306/06/2026
Directorate: District Management & Institutional Governance (Inclusive
Education & Special Schools)
SALARY : R598 260 per annum
CENTRE : Setotolwane LSEN School. Capricorn South District
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Speech Therapy and Audiology as recognised
by SAQA. Valid and active registration with the Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA) as a Speech Therapist and Audiologist. Minimum of 3
years’ appropriate experience after Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in Speech Therapy and Audiology field. Competencies. Knowledge
and Skills: Good communication skills. Good Customer Care. Time
Management. Group dynamics. working under pressure. Diversity
Management. Change and knowledge. Willingness to work after - hours.
Knowledge of inclusive Education guidelines and protocols. Ability to use
health information for planning. Ability to work under pressure. Knowledge of
the application of clinical Speech therapy & Audiology in Education Setting.
Knowledge of current inclusive education & public service legislation.
Regulations and policies. Knowledge of appropriate assessments and
treatment procedures for specific conditions. Good communication. report
writing. facilitation. liaison. coordination. networking and decision – making
skills. Project management skills and analytical thinking. Functional Computer
literacy - MS Outlook. Word. Excel and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Render speech therapy and audiology services to all learners in need. Support
Educators and support staff on implementation of SIAS policies. Facilitate
Screening and assessment of learners for enrolment. transfer purposes.
Compilation of medical reports for social grant. Sports and administrative
purposes. Compilation of speech therapy monthly reports and statistics of all
schools. Compilation of Speech therapy needs for all schools. Stakeholder
engagement and participation for advocacy. e.g. disability forums. Facilitate
Speech therapy and audiology Assistive devices procurement and
management for all Schools. Support SIAS support structures, school-based
support teams SBST. District-based support teams (DBST). Provincial &
National programs. Training and Support of Junior School-based Therapists
and other support staff. Training of school-based. Circuit and District Education
officials.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 28/119 : CHIEF OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST GRADE 1 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: District Management & Institutional Governance (Inclusive
Education & Special Schools
SALARY : R598 260 per annum
CENTRE : Letaba Special School Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 307/06/2026
Bosele School for the Blind Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
308/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Occupational Therapy as recognised by SAQA.
Valid and active registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) as an Occupational Therapist. Minimum of 3 years’ appropriate
experience after Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in the
Occupational Therapy field. Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: Have
knowledge and understanding of education legislation and policies especially
Inclusive education and principles (White paper 6, SIAS etc. In-depth
knowledge and understanding of Occupational therapy and treatment of
learners at designated schools and Care Centre’s. Must be able to promote
inclusive education which includes promoting access to quality public funded
education for learners with disability. Should have experience in working as
129
part of a team and collaborating with stakeholders. Should be able to take
initiative. work under pressure and problem-solve if and when necessary.
Experience in coordinating education and other support for learners with
disabilities will be an added advantage. The incumbent will function as part of
the District-based Support Team with the specific responsibility of providing
transversal outreach services to special schools that include learners with
severe to profound intellectual disability (LSPID). Preferably be able to
communicate effectively. The job involves travelling, and therefore a valid
driver’s licence is a requirement. Functional computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS PowerPoint & MS Outlook).
DUTIES : As a member of the transversal team. the incumbent will collaborate with team.
members in the provision of support to designated schools. Supervisory work
to all the therapists or professionals at a school. Support to be provided will
include Assessment of LSPID enrolled in the schools; provision of relevant
therapeutic intervention to learners and families; monitoring and reporting on
these learners’ progress. training on learning programme for LSPID. Monitoring
and reporting implementation of the learning programme for LSPID. Training
and supporting teachers for proper assessment and therapeutic session.
Monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the intervention for
therapeutic purposes in designated schools; advocating for access to quality
public funded education for LSPID and carrying out administrative functions
related to the support provided. Provide support to other learners in the
community as and when needed. Support the District in the development,
review, implementation of Inclusive Education for the benefit of designated
schools and care center’s in the district.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664 and Maupi MJ at 081
530 8921.
POST 28/120 : SOCIAL WORKER SUPERVISOR (X10 POSTS)
Directorate: Learner Social Support Programmes: Early Childhood
Development
SALARY : R496 668 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 565/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 566/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 567/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 568/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 569/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 570/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 571/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 572/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 573/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 574/06/2026 (X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification in Social Work as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of
seven (07) years’ experience as a Social Worker. Experience in the field of
ECD and Partial Care will serve as an added advantage. Valid registration with
South African Council for Social Service Professions (SACSSP). Valid driver’s
license with exception of people with disabilities. Competencies. Knowledge
and Skills: Knowledge of ECD Conditional Grants, Education and Social
Development strategies and programmes pertaining to ECD. Government
policies and approach to ECD and Children’s Act. Programme and project
management skills. Information and knowledge management skills. People
management and empowerment skills. Communication and coordination skills.
Planning and organizing skills. Policy implementation skills. Business ethics
skills. Good verbal and written communication. Good report writing skills.
Ability to intervene and resolve conflict of a complex nature. Problem solving
skills. Planning and organizing work skills and working independently.
Compassion. Analytical skills.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the implementation of ECD policies. strategies. minimum
technical norms and standards. including practice guidelines in respect of early
childhood development conditional grant. Provide technical support to the ECD
programme and ensure that all deliverables of the ECD conditional grant are
met. Consolidate provincial reports in line with the ECD Conditional
Framework. Manage and facilitate capacity building on the ECD conditional
grant. Manage and monitor funded ECD Centre’s. Supervise Social workers.
Social auxiliary workers and data capturers.
130
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/121 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. CONDITIONS OF SERVICE REF NO: LDOE
541/06/2026
Directorate: Capricorn South
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn South
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management or Public
Administration/ Public Management as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five
(5) years' experience, of which two (3) years must be at a lower management
or supervisory level of 7/8 within the related field. Results/Certificate/Proof for
introductory PERSAL is compulsory. Valid vehicle driver’s license (except for
people with disability). Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service legislative environment. policies.
regulations. frameworks and Instructions. Human and Financial management
skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical. planning.
and organisational skills. Presentation skills. Ability to lead and manage teams
effectively. Leadership and team management abilities. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. with the ability to collaborate across
departments. Close attention to detail and organisational skills. Problem-
solving and decision-making aptitude. Ability to manage multiple projects and
deadlines effectively. Functional Computer Literacy - MS Word. MS Excel. MS
PowerPoint and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Coordinate and facilitate the conditions of service for Employment of Educators
Act and Public Service Act staff. Supervise and management of leave of
absence (annual/Vacation. sick. special. PILIR. etc.). Supervise and manage
termination of service. Supervise and manage allowances in line with national
policies and directives. Provide guidance and advice to line managers or
employees on HR policies and directives. Authorize /Approve transactions on
PERSAL according to departmental delegations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/122 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & ACCOUNTING
SERVICES REF NO: LDOE 542/06/2026
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Mogalakwena
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Financial Management / Financial
Accounting/ Accounting / Commerce / Cost Management & Accounting /
Auditing as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five (5) years' experience of
which two (3) years must be at lower management or supervisory level of 7/8
within the related field. Valid vehicle driver’s license (except for people with
disability). Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service legislative environment. policies.
regulations. frameworks and Instructions. Human and Financial management
skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical. planning.
and organisational skills. Presentation skills. Ability to lead and manage teams
effectively. Leadership and team management abilities. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. with the ability to collaborate across
departments. High attention to detail and organizational skills. Problem-solving
and decision-making aptitude. Ability to manage multiple projects and
deadlines effectively. Functional Computer Literacy: MS Word. Excel.
Powerpoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Ensure compliance with the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA).
Treasury Regulations. and related financial policies and procedures.
Implement financial administration and accounting policies and processes.
Manage financial information and accounting services. Verify documents and
process documents. Manage financial deductions.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
131
POST 28/123 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & REPORTING
SERVICES REF NO: LDOE 543/06/2026
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Sekhukhune East
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Financial Management / Financial
Accounting/ Accounting / Commerce / Cost Management & Accounting /
Auditing as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five (5) years' experience of
which two (3) years must be at lower management or supervisory level of 7/8
within the related field. Valid vehicle driver’s license (except for people with
disability). Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service legislative environment. policies.
regulations. frameworks and Instructions. Human and Financial management
skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical. planning.
and organisational skills. Presentation skills. Ability to lead and manage teams
effectively. Leadership and team management abilities. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. with the ability to collaborate across
departments. Close attention to detail and organisational skills. Problem-
solving and decision-making aptitude. Ability to manage multiple projects and
deadlines effectively. Functional Computer Literacy: MS Word. Excel.
PowerPoint and Outlook.
DUTIES : Coordinate financial planning and budgeting processes. Provide medium-long-
term financial planning in line with MTEF processes. Compile budget estimates
focuses and project planning. Monitor and report on expenditure trends.
Coordinate and provide input for financial reporting. Monthly reconciliation of
Bank accounts. ledger accounts. Revenue for the compilation of the certificate.
Attend and answer audit queries and ensure submission of information on
request. Assist in analysing and interpreting monthly management reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/124 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDoE 544/06/2026
Sekhukhune South Ref No: LDoE 545/06/2026
Vhembe East Ref No: LDoE 546/06/2026
Waterberg Ref No: LDoE 547/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Supply Chain Management/ Assets
Management and Financial Management as recognised by SAQA. Minimum
of five (5) years' experience of which two (3) years must be at lower
management or supervisory level of 7/8 within the related field. Valid vehicle
driver’s license (except for people with disability). Competencies. Knowledge
and Skills Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service legislative
environment. policies. regulations. frameworks and Instructions. Human and
Financial management skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal
skills. Analytical. planning. and organisational skills. Presentation skills. Ability
to lead and manage teams effectively. Leadership and team management
abilities. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. with the ability to
collaborate across departments. High attention to detail and organizational
skills. Problem-solving and decision-making aptitude. Ability to manage
multiple projects and deadlines effectively. Functional Computer Literacy - MS
Word. MS Excel. MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Ensure effective and compliant supply chain management processes in line
with PFMA and other regulations. Implement and monitor supply chain policies
and procedures. Manage procurement. contract management. asset
management. and inventory control functions. Ensure proper record-keeping
and reporting as required by the PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
132
POST 28/125 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT (HRD) AND
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (PMS) REF NO: LDOE
548/06/2026
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Mopani West
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resources Management/
Development as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five (5) years' experience
of which two (3) years must be at lower management or supervisory level of
7/8 within the related field. Valid vehicle driver’s license except for people with
disability. Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and understanding
of the Public Service legislative environment. policies. regulations. frameworks
and Instructions. Human and Financial management skills. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical. planning. and
organisational skills. Presentation skills. Ability to lead and manage teams
effectively. Leadership and team management abilities. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. with the ability to collaborate across
departments. High attention to detail and organizational skills. Problem-solving
and decision-making aptitude. Ability to manage multiple projects and
deadlines effectively. Functional Computer Literacy - MS Word. MS Excel. MS
Power Point and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Coordinate and monitor the provision of implementation of Performance
Management System (PMS). Manage the performance assessment and
payment of incentives. Coordinate and facilitate the implementation of Skills
Development. Coordinate and facilitate provision of training development
processes and programmes. Coordinate the provision of learnership and
internship programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/126 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SKILLS DEVELOPMENT SERVICES REF NO:
LDOE 549/06/2026
Directorate: HRD & Performance Management Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 in Human Resource Development/Human Resource
Management/ Public Administration/Education Management/Training and
Development/Management Services or related qualification as recognised by
SAQA. Minimum of five (5) years' experience of which two (3) years must be
at lower management or supervisory level of 7/8 within the Skills Development,
Human Resource Development, Training Coordination and Workplace
Learning fields. Valid vehicle driver’s license, except for people with disabilities.
Competencies. Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge of Skills Development Act,
Skills Development Levies Act, National Skills Development Plan, Public
Service Regulations, Employment Equity Act, Labour Relations Act, ETDP
SETA requirements and applicable DPSA policies. Public Service legislative
and regulatory framework & Human Resource Development policies and
practices. Workplace Skills Plans (WSPs) and Annual Training Reports (ATRs).
Skills audits and competency assessments. Planning for Learnerships.
internships and workplace-based learning programmes. ETDP SETA and
National Skills Fund requirements. Performance Management and
Development System (PMDS). Strategic planning. monitoring and evaluation
and financial management and budgeting principles. Strategic and analytical
thinking skills. Planning and project management skills. Leadership and
supervisory skills. Stakeholder and partnership management. Report writing
and presentation skills. Communication and interpersonal skills. Data analysis
and statistical reporting. Problem-solving and decision-making abilities. Ability
to work under pressure and meet deadlines. Monitoring. evaluation and
compliance management skills. Functional computer literacy: MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint and HRD systems.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the implementation of the Departmental Workplace Skills Plan and
Annual Training Report. Facilitate skills audits and identifying organizational
skills gaps. Co-ordinate training. development and capacity-building initiatives.
Manage relationships with ETDP SETA. institutions of higher learning and
training providers. Coordinate bursary. internship. learnership and experiential
133
learning programmes. Monitor implementation of HRD programmes and
interventions. Compile management reports. statistics and compliance reports.
Coordinate the Governance and Consultative Skills Development Committee
Structures. Manage the training budgets and monitor expenditure. Provide
technical advice on human resource development initiatives. Supervise and
develop staff within the component. Ensure compliance with all relevant
legislative and policy frameworks. Coordinate provincial and district skills
development projects and programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/127 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LEARNERSHIPS, INTERNSHIPS AND
EXPERIENTIAL PROGRAMMES REF NO: LDOE 550/06/2026
Directorate: HRD & Performance Management Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Development/ Human
Resource Management/ Public Administration/Labour Relations/Training and
Development or related qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five
(5) years' experience of which two (3) years must be at lower management or
supervisory level of 7/8 within the internship, learnership, workplace learning,
youth development or skills development programmes fields. Valid vehicle
driver’s license except for people with disability. Competencies. Knowledge
and Skills: Sound knowledge of: Skills Development Act and Skills
Development Levies Act, Public Service Human Resource Development
Framework, National Skills Development Plan, ETDP SETA grant regulations
and reporting requirements. Internship and Learnership Framework for the
Public Service. Occupational qualifications and workplace-based learning
methodologies. Labour legislation and employment practices. Monitoring and
evaluation systems. Project and programme management principles and
internship. learnership and experiential learning frameworks within the Public
Service. Programme coordination and administration skills. Stakeholder
engagement and relationship management. Project planning and
implementation skills. Report writing and data management. Communication
and presentation skills. Research and analytical skills. Financial administration
and budgeting skills. Problem-solving and innovation. Ability to coordinate
multiple projects simultaneously. Functional computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook) and database management.
DUTIES : Coordinate the implementation of departmental internship programmes.
Coordinate and monitor learnership implementation across districts and Head
Office. Manage experiential learning placements for students from universities
and TVET colleges. Liaise with ETDP SETA. institutions of higher learning and
other stakeholders. Develop and maintain a database of interns. learners and
students participating in workplace-based learning. Facilitate recruitment.
placement. induction and monitoring of programme beneficiaries. Monitor
compliance with programme requirements. agreements and reporting
obligations. Compile monthly. quarterly and annual programme performance
reports. Coordinate mentor and supervisor training and support. Monitor
stipend administration and programme expenditure. Conduct programme
evaluations and recommend improvement initiatives. Promote youth
employability and workplace learning opportunities. Ensure alignment of
programmes with departmental Human Resource Development priorities.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/128 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES. PROVISIONING REF NO:
LDOE 551/06/2026
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Waterberg
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management/Public
Administration/ Public Management as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five
(5) years' experience of which two (3) years must be at lower management or
supervisory level of 7/8 within the related field. Results/Certificate/Proof for
introductory PERSAL is compulsory. Valid vehicle driver’s license (except for
134
people with disability). Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the Public Service legislative environment, policies,
regulations, frameworks and Instructions. Human and Financial management
skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical. planning.
and organisational skills. Presentation skills. Ability to lead and manage teams
effectively. Leadership and team management abilities. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. with the ability to collaborate across
departments. High attention to detail and organizational skills. Problem-solving
and decision-making aptitude. Ability to manage multiple projects and
deadlines effectively. Functional Computer Literacy - MS Word. MS Excel, MS
Power Point and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Manage provisioning of Employment of Educators Act and Public Service Act
staff. Coordinate and manage recruitment of staff. Facilitate the maintenance
of statistical information. Manage provisioning of Employment of Educators Act
and Public Service Act staff. Coordinate and manage recruitment of staff.
Facilitate the maintenance of statistical information. Supervise the transfers of
Public Service and Employment of Educators’ Acts staff. Supervise the
secondment of Public Service and Employment of Educators’ Acts staff.
Ensure the successful implementation of the Departmental/Public Service
policies on matters related to HRM to ensure compliance to
prescripts/legislation. Inform. guide and advice line managers or employees on
HR policies. legislative frameworks and directives. Approve/Authorize
transactions on PERSAL according to delegations. Supervise the transfers of
Public Service and Employment of Educators’ Acts staff. Supervise the
secondment of Public Service and Employment of Educators’ Acts staff.
Ensure the successful implementation of the Departmental/Public Service
policies on matters related to HRM to ensure compliance to
prescripts/legislation. Inform. guide and advice line managers or employees on
HR policies. legislative frameworks and directives. Approve/Authorize
transactions on PERSAL according to delegations.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/129 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SPECIAL PROJECTS: NATIONAL SCHOOL
NUTRITION PROGRAMME (NSNP) REF NO: 552/06/2026
Directorate: Special Projects
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : A relevant NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. Minimum of five
(5) years' experience of which two (3) years must be at lower management or
supervisory level of 7/8 within the related field. Valid vehicle driver’s license
except for people with disability. Competencies. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service legislative environment,
policies, regulations, frameworks and Instructions. Human and Financial
management skills. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
Analytical. planning. and organisational skills. Presentation skills. Ability to lead
and manage teams effectively. Functional Computer Literacy - MS Word, MS
Excel, MS Power Point and MS Outlook. Leadership and team management
abilities. Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. with the ability to
collaborate across departments. High attention to detail and organizational
skills. Problem-solving and decision-making aptitude. Ability to manage
multiple projects and deadlines effectively.
DUTIES : Manage and facilitate the development and implementation of Nutrition policy.
Manage the NSNP budget. Monitor and support NSNP projects. Manage
sustainable food production.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/130 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ESTABLISHMENT & HR SYSTEMS REF NO:
LDOE 553/06/2026
Directorate: Organisational Development. HR Planning & HR Systems
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Human Resource Management/ Human Resource
Development / Public Administration/ Public Management as recognised by
135
SAQA. PERSAL Certificate. Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years
must be at Lower Management post /Supervisory level 7/8 within related field.
Valid driver’s license (with exception of person with disability). Competencies.
Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge and understanding of Public Service Act
(PSA), Public Service Regulations (PSR), PSCBC Resolutions, Labour
Relations Act HR Policy and Procedures. Employment of Educators Act (EEA).
Personnel Administrative Measures (PAM), PFMA and PERSAL system.
Strong organizational and leadership. Ability to work under pressure and within
deadlines. Knowledge Management. Problem Solving and analysis.
Programme & Project Management. Change Management. Financial
Management. Client orientation & Customer focus. Communication. Functional
computer literacy: MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power Point & MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Establishment Administration: Management of matrix. Provide monthly reports.
Do audit on establishment matters. Provide PERSAL information. System
Administration: Act as HR PERSAL Controller. Register SCC to National
Treasury. Conduct District visits on system matters. Create and terminate
PERSAL users. Log calls for users via Help Desk.Reset revoked Users.
Monitor PERSAL access violations. Attend to AG enquiries on system matters
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa `LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/131 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: TELECOMMUNICATIONS REF NO: LDOE
554/06/2026
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 or 7 qualification in Public Management/Administration,
Information Science, Logistics or related telecommunications qualification as
recognised by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years must
be at Lower Management post /Supervisory level 7/8 within the
Telecommunications field. Valid driver’s license with exception of person with
disability Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: People Management.
Planning. Organizing. Time Management. Policy Analysis. Financial. Change.
Knowledge and Project Management. Public Service Legislations.
Telecommunications Services and Mobile Contracts such as RT15.
Negotiation. Communication. Writing. Leadership. Strategic Planning. Diversity
Management. Computer Literacy. Facilitation and Coordination.
DUTIES : Provide telecommunications services. Manage contracts for mobile devices,
SIM cards, Wi-Fi routers and landlines, support mobile device issues. Maintain
the telecommunications account. Coordinate service-provider meetings and
install work-related software on departmental mobile devices.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/132 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: SYSTEMS ANALYST REF NO: LDOE 555/06/2026
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 or 7 qualification in Software Development/ IT. Information
Systems/ Computer Science/ Computer Engineering or related field as
recognised by SAQA. Qualification/s in Microsoft Azure Developer
Expert/Specialty certification will be an advantage. Five (5) years’ experience
of which three (3) years must be at Lower Management post /Supervisory level
7/8 within the ICT Applications and Systems Analysis. Valid driver’s license with
exception of person with disability. Competencies. Knowledge and Skills:
People Management. Planning. Organizing. Time Management. Policy
Analysis. Financial. Change. Knowledge and Project Management. Knowledge
of Public Service Legislation. ICT Prescripts. SDLC. Systems Development
Methodologies and Systems Analysis for Value-For-Money Outcomes.
Negotiation. Communication. Writing. Leadership. Strategic Planning. Diversity
Management. Database. OLA Architecture. Computer Literacy. Facilitation and
Coordination Skills.
DUTIES : Provide application and systems requirements. develop and maintain IT
application systems. Manage systems development projects. Provide
application and user support. work with vendors. maintain systems and licence
136
registers. Assist the Deputy Director: Applications and Systems and identify
software needs for procurement and development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/133 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: LAN TECHNICIAN REF NO: LDOE 556/06/2026
(X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 or 7 qualification in IT. Information Systems/ Computer Science/
Computer Engineering or related field as recognised by SAQA. A qualification/s
in CISP, Microsoft Azure Expert/Speciality, and ITIL certification will be an
advantage. Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years must be at
Lower Management post /Supervisory level 7/8 within the ICT Infrastructure
field. Valid driver’s license with exception of person with disability.
Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: People Management. Planning.
Organizing. Time Management. Policy Analysis. Financial. Change.
Knowledge And Project Management. Knowledge Of Public Service
Legislation. ICT Prescripts. Servers. Networks. Endpoint Support. Microsoft
Cloud Services and SITA Systems. Including BAS. PERSAL. Logis And
Examination. Troubleshooting. ICT Security. Cybersecurity. Negotiation.
Communication. Leadership. Strategic Planning. Diversity Management. OLA.
Computer Literacy. Facilitation And Coordination Skills.
DUTIES : Create/update AD user profiles and provide IT support to offices and schools
Support ICT security, Infrastructure, equipment, software, servers and cloud
services. Participate in ICT projects and work with vendors. including SITA and
the Microsoft LSP. Assess donated assets and connect devices and officials to
the network. Assist the Deputy Director: ICT Infrastructure and support
departmental. SITA and OTP transversal systems.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/134 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: IT PROGRAMMER REF NO: LDOE 557/06/2026
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 or 7 qualification in Software Development. IT/ Information
Systems / Computer Science / Computer Engineering as recognized by SAQA.
Qualification/s in Microsoft Azure Developer Expert / Specialty certification will
be an added advantage Five (5) years’ experience of which three (3) years
must be at Lower Management post / Supervisory level 7/8 within ICT
Applications and Systems Development field. Valid driver’s license with
exception of people with disabilities. People Management. Planning.
Organizing. Time Management. Policy Analysis. Financial. Change.
Knowledge and Project Management. Knowledge of Public Service
Legislation. ICT Prescripts. SDLC. Systems Development Methodologies and
Systems Development for Value-For-Money Outcomes. Negotiation.
Communication. Writing. Leadership. Strategic Planning. Diversity
Management. Database. OLA. Architecture. Computer Literacy. Facilitation
and Coordination Skills.
DUTIES : Develop ICT systems. gather requirements and maintain IT application
systems. Manage systems development projects. work with vendors while
securing source code and access keys. Maintain systems and licence
registers. Assist the Deputy Director: Applications and Systems and identify
software needs for procurement and development.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/135 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: ECD INFRASTRUCTURE POSTS REF NO: LDOE
558/06/2026
Directorate: Infrastructure Delivery Management
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
137
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 or 7 qualification in Quantity Survey or a relevant equivalent
qualification as recognized by SAQA. Five (5) years’ experience of which three
(3) years must be at Lower Management post /Supervisory level 7/8 in the
Building Construction and Building Maintenance field. A valid South African
driver’s licence (with exception of person with disability Competencies and
Skills: People Management and Empowerment. Programme & Project
Management. Financial Management. Change Management. Knowledge
Management. Client orientation & Customer focus. Problem Solving &
Analysis. Communication. Functional Computer literacy - MS Word. Excel.
Power point and Outlook.
DUTIES : Manage and coordinate all aspects of facility projects and facility maintenance.
Be responsible for project and maintenance planning. implementation
monitoring. reporting and evaluation in line with project management
methodology. Do maintenance planning. Be responsible for project and
maintenance accounting and financial management. Report project and
planned and unplanned maintenance progress. Manage project and
maintenance budget resources in consultation with the Supervisor. Do
maintenance trend analysis and facility cost research. Contribute to the human
resource- management.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/136 : OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH OFFICER (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Mopani West District Ref No: LDOE 01/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 02/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 03/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDOE 04/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification in Safety Management / Environmental Health
Management as recognised by SAQA. Qualifications in Safety Management /
Environmental Health Management or related qualifications will be an added
advantage. A training Course in Safety Management Training Course
(SAMTRAC) and Environmental Health Awareness will be an added
advantage. Registration with a professional body, the South African Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health (SAIOSH). Minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in Occupational Health and Safety and related field. Valid driver’s
license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of
Employee Health and Wellness Strategic Framework. Knowledge of
Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA),
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA) and its regulations. Understanding
and application of Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA).
Knowledge of Incident Cause Analysis Method (ICAM). Root Cause Analysis
Technique (RCAT) for accident investigations. First Aid Training. International
Organization for Standardizations (ISO) 45001 & 14001 awareness. Sound
verbal and written communication skills. Health & Safety Management System
implementation. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power
Point and MS Outlook).
DUTIES : Implement & monitor all safety processes. Participate in the internal risk
assessment process. Conduct OHS inspections. Investigate accidents and
incidents. Conduct internal audits according to organizational procedures &
legislation. Maintain SHE RISK system. Emergency Preparedness and
Response. Effective Contractor safety management. Coordinate and
participate in SHE-related meetings and safety campaigns. Gather input/data
for SHE reports & statistics.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/137 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 05/06/2026
Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDOE 06/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 07/06/2026
138
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Finance /
Accounting / Cost / Management Accounting / Finance Management will be an
added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant experience in the finance
environment and related field. A valid driver’s license, except for people with
disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge and understanding of the
relevant financial legislative policies, procedures and legislative frameworks
and Treasury instructions and regulations. Knowledge of BAS and PERSAL
systems. Knowledge of Financial Administration. Functional Computer Literacy
(MS Word, Excel, Power point, Outlook). Ability to compile report. Strong
communication skills (written and verbal), good interpersonal skills, problem-
solving skills, planning and organisational skills. Good record keeping.
DUTIES : Provide financial and accounting services. Monitor the management of
revenue and debt services. Facilitate the management of the revenue and debt
services. Generate reports on revenue and debt. Monitor systems and
procedures on managing revenue and debt.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/138 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT &
REPORTING (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 08/06/2026
Capricorn South District Ref No: LDOE 09/06/2026
Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDOE 10/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 11/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA Qualification/s in Accounting
/ Cost / Management Accounting / Finance Management will be an added
advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant experience in the finance environment
or related field. A valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities.
Knowledge and skills: Knowledge and understanding of the relevant financial
legislative policies, procedures and legislative frameworks and Treasury
instructions and regulations. Computer literacy: Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel
and Outlook. Ability to compile report. Strong communication skills (written and
verbal), good interpersonal skills, problem-solving skills, planning and
organisational skills. Good record keeping.
DUTIES : Develop financial management policies processes and procedures. Provision
of support and advise programme and responsibility managers with regard to
allocation, additional re- allocation, approval of budget and other budgetary
matters. Monitor and report on expenditure trends and compile financial
statement for Annual reporting. Provide support for the budget preparation
process.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/139 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: SALARIES AND WAGES REF NO: LDOE
12/06/2026
Directorate: Salaries and Expenditure Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. Qualification in Accounting
/Cost / Management Accounting / Internal Auditing / Finance Management will
be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant experience in the finance
environment or related field. A valid driver’s license except for people with
disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge and understanding of the
relevant financial legislative policies, procedures and legislative frameworks
and Treasury instructions and regulations. Knowledge of BAS and PERSAL
systems. Functional computer literacy: MS word, PowerPoint, Excel and
Outlook. Ability to compile report. Strong communication skills (written and
verbal), good interpersonal skills, problem-solving skills, planning and
organisational skills. Good record keeping.
DUTIES : Administer payroll management services. Maintain filling storage of payroll
reports and handle queries related payroll. Administer the reconciliation of tax
matters on a monthly basis. Monitor the payment of transfers and subsidies.
Monitor, investigate and clear salary administration suspense account.
139
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/140 : SENIOR STATE ACCOUNTANT: NORMS & STANDARDS REF NO: LDOE
13/06/2026
Directorate: Norms & Standards for School Funding
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA A qualification in Accounting
/ Cost / Management Accounting / Internal Auditing / Finance Management will
be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Financial
/ Accounting environment or related field. A valid driver’s license except for
people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge and understanding
of the relevant financial legislative policies, procedures and legislative
frameworks and Treasury instructions and regulations. Analytical, report
writing, and financial management skills. Communication (verbal and written)
and problem-solving skills. Functional computer literacy: MS word,
PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook.
DUTIES : Administer school funding norms for public and special schools Monitor the
compliance of usage of allocated subsidies in line with legislative frameworks.
Monitor the submission of audited financial statements. Evaluate and analyses
the annual financial statements for schools.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/141 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA A qualification in Archives
and Records Management / Information Science / Public Management or any
related fields will be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in Records Management or related field. A valid driver’s license
except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills. Essential skills will
include the following: knowledge of filing systems (manual and computerised),
document life cycle management (creation, storage, retrieval, disposal),
archival procedures, and the relevant national archives and records
management prescripts. Functional computer literacy: MS word, PowerPoint,
Excel and Outlook.
DUTIES : Monitor the creation, maintenance, usage, scanning, replenishing and disposal
of records. Monitor and maintain personnel files. Provide and maintain internal
records management services. Monitor and attend to clients and register hand
delivered mail/files.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/142 : SENIOR LABOUR RELATION OFFICER (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Waterberg District Ref No: LDOE 15/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 16/06/2026
Capricorn South District Ref No: LDOE 17/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDOE 18/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 or 7 qualification as recognised by SAQA A qualification/s in
Human Resource Management, Labour Relations and other related
qualifications will be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in Labour Relations or related. A valid driver’s license except for
people with disabilities Knowledge and skills: Sound knowledge of Labour
Relations statutes. Skills: Investigations and negotiations. Administrative.
Planning and organising. Financial management. Report writing. Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Problem solving. Computer literacy,
Client-oriented. Project management. Team leadership. Conducting
investigations. Presentation skills. Personal Attributes: Integrity, Committed,
Loyal, Proactive and Ethical.
140
DUTIES : Promotion of sound labour relations environment. Investigate and assist in the
resolution of individual and collective complaints and grievances. Investigate,
initiate and/or preside over misconduct cases. Co-ordinate disciplinary hearing.
Represent the Department at conciliation and arbitration and facilities the
implementation of settlement agreements and arbitration awards. Provide
support for compliance with legislative framework relating to grievances and
disputes. Compile reports/submissions in respect of grievances dispute, advice
on industrial action matters.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/143 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
& DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 19/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDOE 20/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification/s in Human
Resource Management / Development / Public Management / Public
Administration / Management of Training will be an added advantage. Minimum
of 3 years relevant experience in Performance Management and Development
environment or related field. A valid driver’s license except for people with
disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge: Human Resource Management.
Basic conditions of Employment. Performance Management System (PMS).
Public Finance Management Act (PFMA). Public Service Regulations (PSR).
Public Service Act (PSA). Performance Management Development System
(PMDS). Time Management skills. Presentation skills. Planning and
Organizing skills. Communication skills. Computer Literate (i.e. MS Word,
Excel and / or PowerPoint). Project Management.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support and ensure correct implementation of the
Performance Management and Development System (PMDS). Administer and
maintain PMDS database. Provide Performance Management and
Development System advice and guidance. Supervise resources (human,
finance, equipment/ assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/144 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Ref No: LDOE 21/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDOE 22/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 23/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDOE 24/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDOE 25/06/2026
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDOE 26/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification/s in Human
Resource Management / Development / Public Management / Public
Administration / Management of Training will be an added advantage. Minimum
of 3 years relevant experience in Human Resource Development / Training and
Development Services or related field. A valid driver’s license except for people
with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge: Departmental policies and
procedures, Batho Pele Principles, Good Governance Word, Excel and
PowerPoint. Skills: Computer Literacy, Analytical, Communication,
Interpersonal Relations, Innovative, Planning and organizing.
DUTIES : Assist with managing effective bursary and induction administration. Develop
and implement the Workplace Skills Plan. Ensure effective gathering and
maintenance of the training and bursary databases. Assist with the Skills
Auditing, needs identification and analysis. Ensure compliance with HRM&D
policies and procedures. Coordinates and assist with learnership and
internship programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
141
POST 28/145 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDOE 27/06/2026
Head Office Ref No: LDOE 28/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA A qualification/s in Financial
/ Risk Management / Security Management will be an added advantage.
Grade-B PSIRA certificate will be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years
relevant experience in Security & Facilities Management or related field. A valid
driver’s license except for people with disabilities Knowledge and skills: Sound
knowledge of Criminal Procedure Act, Minimum Information Security Standard,
Control of Access to Public Premises and Vehicles Act, Computer literacy and
Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHS). The applicant must be willing to
undergo the process of security vetting.
DUTIES : Supervise the security functions performed by the security officers/service
providers, ensuring adherence to department security policies. Allocate duties
to security officer/service providers, monitor outcomes and institute the
necessary corrective measures to address deviations from norms and
standards. Monitor access control to prevent unauthorized entry in buildings
and other premises. Authorization of equipment, documents and stores into or
out of the building or premises. Monitor and provide support in case of
emergencies. Render administrative and related functions. Administer key
control system. Identify risks and threats to the security of the department.
Provide information regarding incident to investigating officers. Report faulty
equipment/systems. Administer all control room operations to safe - guard the
department’s assets. Review of footages upon request through proper
procedure. Update all register for the incidents observed.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/146 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PURCHASES AND STORES (X3
POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 29/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 30/06/2026
Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 31/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification/s in
Accounting / Supply Chain Management / Logistics or relevant qualification will
be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant experience in the Supply
Chain Management environment or related field. A valid driver’s licence except
for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of PFMA,
Treasury Regulations. Computer literacy: Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel and
Outlook. Ability to compile report. Strong communication skills, (written and
verbal), good interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, plaining and
organizational skills. Good record keeping.
DUTIES : Render purchases and prepare purchase orders. Obtain quotations from
suppliers, compare prices and recommend suppliers. Maintain record of
incoming and outcoming materials. Monitor stock levels, conduct periodic
physical verifications and report discrepancies. Prepare monthly reports on
purchases, stock consumption and balances.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/147 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSETS & FLEET MANAGEMENT
(X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Ref No: LDoE 32/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 33/06/2026
Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 34/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 35/06/2026
Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 36/06/2026
142
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA.A qualification/s in Transport
/ Fleet / Assets Management will be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years
relevant experience in Assets and Fleet Management environment or related
field. A valid driver’s licence except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and
skills: Knowledge and understanding of Policy framework regulating
Government owned and subsidized vehicles. Knowledge and understanding of
Departmental procedures, processes and systems regulating the provision of
Fleet Management functions. Skills and Competencies: Management, Project
Management, Report writing, Communication, Problem solving, Conflict
management, Planning and Organising, Coordination and Facilitation Skills.
DUTIES : Provision of Assets management services. Provision of Assets disposal
management services. Provision of fleet management services. Implement
Assets and Fleet management policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/148 : SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT REF
NO: LDOE 37/06/2026
Directorate: Knowledge & Information Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. Qualification in Information
Studies / Public Management / Administration will be an added advantage.
Minimum of 3 years relevant experience in Information Studies or related field.
Valid driver’s license (with exception of people with disabilities) Knowledge and
Skills: Knowledge and understanding of Regulations, Acts, Policies and
procedures governing Public Service. Presentation Skills. Change
Management skills. Communication skills. Report writing skills.
Responsiveness; Pro-activeness; Professionalism; Accuracy; Flexibility;
Independent; Co-operative; Team player; Supportive; Flexible; Willing to work
under changing and difficult circumstances. Innovation and creativity. Time and
self-management.
DUTIES : Administer information management programmes. Facilitate the
implementation and practices of Knowledge and Information Management.
Facilitate effective Information Management processes, practices and
platforms to improve access to knowledge & information. Foster/promote and
stimulate innovation. Provide administrative support services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/149 : SENIOR PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: HR Admin. Services
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE Head Office Ref No: LDOE 38/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 39/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification/s in Human
Resource Management/ Public Management/ Public Administration will be an
added advantage. Certificate/Proof of Introductory PERSAL. Minimum of 3
years relevant experience in HRM/Public Management environment or related
field. A valid driver’s license, except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and
skills: Problem–solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and organising
skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and
MS Outlook).
DUTIES : Monitor the conditions of service for Employment of Educators and Public
Service staff. Monitor the capturing and processing of employee benefits
(housing allowances, leaves, pensions, overtime, long service awards, etc.)
Monitor the termination of staff Update of resignation transactions on electronic
database for tracking and the personnel file. Approve/ Disapprove conditions
of service transactions on PERSAL. Compile monthly statistical reports and
management reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
143
POST 28/150 : CHIEF NETWORK CONTROLLER (X7 POSTS)
Directorate: Information Communication Technology Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 40/06/2026
Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 41/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 42/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 43/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 44/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 45/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. Qualification/s in Information
Technology, Computer Sciences, Telecommunication Engineering / Electronic
Engineering will be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in Information Technology / Computer Sciences or related field. A
valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities: Knowledge of network
design, network security and troubleshooting. Knowledge of network protocols
and Technologies (TCP/IP, DNS and OSPF and BGP). Knowledge of
LAN/WAN Technologies.
DUTIES : Supervise and coordinate all network and communication system operations.
Monitor network performance and security using advance tools. Ensure reliable
connectivity across all departmental sites (LAN/WAN/WIFI). Oversee backup,
data recovery and all recovery procedures. Maintain ICT documentation.
Ensure compliances with ITC security standard and data protection policies.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/151 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: RECORDS MANAGEMENT (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 46/06/2026
Vhembe East district Ref No: LDoE 47/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. A qualification/s in Human
Resource Management / Public Management / Public Administration will be an
added advantage. Minimum of 3 years’ relevant experience in HRM / Public
Management environment or related field. A valid driver’s license except for
people with disabilities Knowledge and skills: Problem Solving and analysis.
Programme & Project Management. Change Management. Knowledge and
understanding of the relevant legislative frameworks and policies. Computer
Literacy (MS Office Packages). Ability to compile report. Strong communication
skills, (written and verbal), Good interpersonal skills, Planning and
organizational skills. Good record keeping skills.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the creation, maintenance, usage, scanning, replenishing and
disposal of records. Co-ordinate and maintain personnel files Co-ordinate and
maintain internal records management services. Co-ordinate and attend to
clients and register hand delivered mail/files.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/152 : SENIOR ADMIN OFFICER: EXAMINATIONS & ASSESSMENT (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Examination and Assessment
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 48/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 49/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 50/06/2026
Head Office Ref No: LDoE 51/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification/s in ICT and
related qualification will be an added advantage. Minimum of 3 years relevant
experience in the Examinations environment or related field. A valid driver’s
license except for people with disabilities Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge and
understanding of the Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment policies and
implementation, educational management, governance and service delivery,
legislative environment, regulations, frameworks and instructions. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical, planning and organisational
144
skills. Functional computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint and MS
Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide support for the security printing, packing, distribute and safekeeping of
question papers, assessment instruments and examination materials.
Administer the examination and assessment logistical, auxiliary and payment
of examinations administration services. Administer the conduct of examination
and assessment. Provide marking administration support.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/153 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: SPECIAL PROJECTS (NATIONAL SCHOOL
NUTRITION PROGRAMMES (NSNP), SCHOLAR TRANSPORT AND
EXPANDED PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMMES (EPWP) (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Learner Social Support Programmes
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 52/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 53/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 54/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification/s in Transport
/ Economics / Logistics / Fleet Management / Business Management / Public
Management will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in Transport, Economics, Logistics and Fleet Management or
related field. A valid driver’s license, except for people with disabilities.
Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of clerical duties and practice. Ability to
capture data, operate a computer and collect statistics.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the National School Nutrition Programmes (NSNP) and scholar
transport. Co-ordinate the Expanded Public Works Programmes (EPWP). Co-
ordinate the Scholar Transport. Monitor the contractual management and
obligations NSNP, Scholar Transport and EPWP.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/154 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 55/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 56/06/2026
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDOE 57/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA.A qualification/s in Financial
Management will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in Financial Management or related field. A valid driver’s licence
except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Problem Solving and
analysis. Programme & Project Management. Change Management. Financial
Management. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant financial
legislative frameworks. Understanding of Government financial delegations.
Functional Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide financial administration services for the District and Circuits. Implement
financial administration and accounting policies and processes. Verify
documents and processes for payment.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/155 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & REPORTING (X2
POSTS)
Directorate: Finance
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Mopani West District Ref No: LDOE 58/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 59/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA.A qualification in Financial
Management will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in Financial Management or related field. A valid driver’s licence
except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Problem Solving and
analysis. Programme & Project Management. Change Management. Financial
Management. Knowledge and understanding of the financial relevant
145
legislative frameworks. Understanding of Government financial delegations.
Functional Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide support for financial planning and budgeting services Implement
financial planning and budgeting policies and processes’-ordinate reporting on
expenditure trends.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/156 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: NORMS AND STANDARDS: SCHOOL FUNDING
REF NO: LDOE 60/06/2026
Directorate: Norms & Standards for School Funding
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Financial
Management will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in Financial Management or related field. A valid driver’s licence
except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and Skills: Problem Solving and
analysis. Programme & Project Management. Change Management. Financial
Management. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant financial
legislative frameworks. Understanding of Government financial delegations.
Functional Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook).
DUTIES : Co-ordinate school funding norms for public ordinary schools. Co-ordinate
compliance of the usage of allocated subsidies. Provide support to the analysis
of financial statements for schools. Co-ordinate compliance to legal
requirements and prescripts.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/157 : SOCIAL WORKER (X29 POSTS)
Directorate: District Management & Institutional Governance (Inclusive
Education & Special Schools
SALARY : R338 208 per annum
CENTRE : Yingisani School for the Deaf Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 340/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Letaba Special School: Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 341/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Rivoni School for the Blind: Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 342/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Tshilwavhusiku Razwimisani Special School:
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 343/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Grace and Love Special School Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE
344/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Mhinga Special School: Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 345/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Fulufhelo Special School: Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 346/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Rethuseng Special School: Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 347/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Ratanang Special School: Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 348/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Grace and Hope Special School Capricorn
South District Ref No: LDoE 349/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Benedict and Hope Special School Capricorn
South District Ref No: LDoE 350/06/2026 (X1 Post)
New Horizon Special School Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
351/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Mahlasedi Special School: Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 352/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Setotolwane LSEN School: Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
353/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Lebone Special School: Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 354/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Nthabiseng Special School: Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 355/06/2026
(X1 Post)
146
Pfunanani Special School: Mopani East District Ref No: DoE 356/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Ramokgwakgwa Special School Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE
357/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Bosele School for the Blind Sekhukhune:
South District Ref No: LDoE 358/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Asiphumelele Special School Sekhukhune:
South District Ref No: LDoE 359/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Ipelegeng Special School Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
360/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Rehlahleng Special School: Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
361/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Jane Furse Special School: Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
362/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Thusanang Special School: Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 363/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Susan Strydom Special School Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 364/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Sedibeng Special School: Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 365/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Yingisani School for the Deaf Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 366/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Letaba Special School: Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 367/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Rivoni School for the Blind: Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 368/06/2026
(X1 Post)
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 7 qualification in Social Work as recognized by SAQA. Valid and
active Registration with the South African Council of Social Service Professions
(SACSSP). Relevant experience as a Social Worker. Experience in working
with learners with special educational needs is an added advantage.
Competencies, Knowledge and Skills: Study, interpret, apply and give
information on legislation and policies. Perform all statutory functions and
attend court proceedings. Produce and maintain records and reports. Liaise
with relevant role players. Compile and implement the social work policy of the
school. Knowledge of social welfare legislations. Counselling and case
management skills. Crisis intervention skills. Communication and interpersonal
skills.
DUTIES : Conduct assessments. identify the conditions of the learners and provide
counselling. Recommend relevant and appropriate interventions. Provide
referrals where necessary. Implement the recommended interventions and
provide continuous support to individuals. groups. families and communities.
Monitor the effectiveness and progress of interventions. Provide psychosocial
support. Support child protection initiatives. Participate in multidisciplinary
teams.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/158 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PURCHASES AND STORES (X4 POSTS)
Directorate: Acquisition, Purchases & Stores
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 61/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 62/06/2026
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 63/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 64/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA.A qualification/s in Financial
Management/SCM /Procurement Management will be an added advantage.
Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in SCM environment or related
field. A valid driver’s licence except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and
Skills: Problem Solving and analysis. Programmed & Project Management.
Change Management. Financial Management. Knowledge and understanding
of the relevant financial legislative frameworks. Understanding of Government
financial delegations. Functional Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook Functional Computer Literacy - MS Word. MS Excel, MS
PowerPoint and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Handle requisitions and orders. Prepare invoices for payment. Co-ordinate the
management of stores.
147
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/159 : PROVISIONING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ACQUISITION
MANAGEMENT SERVICES (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Acquisition, Purchases & Stores
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 65/06/2026
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 66/06/2026
Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 67/06/2026
Vhembe West District, Ref No: LDoE 68/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 69/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification in LLB/B. Proc as recognized by SAQA.A minimum of
5 years’ appropriate post qualification legal experience. Valid driver’s license
except for people with disabilities. Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: In
depth knowledge and understanding of the public sector regulatory and
governance environment including, PFMA, MFMA, Treasury Regulations, B-
BBEE Act, PPPFA, Constitution of the Republic of SA, POPIA, PAIA, PAJA and
PSA. Knowledge of Procurement and Supply Chain Laws, Public
Administration Laws, Law of Contract, Public Finance Law, Labour Law
Interpretation of Statutes, including provincial government policies, processes
and procedures. Candidate must be computer literate. innovative and
competent. They must have good communication and 241 drafting skills.
analytical and researching skills. presentation and reporting skills. leadership
skills. ability to work in a team and under extensive pressure. problem-solving
and have sound organising and planning skills. Functional Computer Literacy
- MS Word. MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of effective and efficient legal services to the department.
Provide administration support. reporting and developmental support of junior
employees or interns in the legal services unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/160 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: ESTABLISHMENT CONTROL AND HUMAN
RESOURCE SYSTEMS REF NO: LDOE 70/06/2026 (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Establishment Control & HR Systems
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification in Human
Resource Management / Development / Public Management / Public
Administration will be an added advantage. Certificate/Proof of Introductory
PERSAL. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in HRM environment
or related field. A valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities
Knowledge and skills: Strong computer literacy, specifically in MS Excel and
HR Information Systems. Knowledge and understanding of relevant HR related
policies and legislative frameworks. Effective written and verbal communication
for interacting with stakeholders.
DUTIES : Monitor and control the establishment of Employment of Educators’ Act and
Public Service Act staff. Monitor PERSAL transactions related to appointments,
promotion and terminations. Provision of PERSAL reports on HR information.
Manage queries related to PERSAL.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/161 : CHIEF REGISTRY CLERK (X9 POSTS)
Directorate: Records Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office Ref No: LDoE 71/06/2026 (4 Posts)
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 72/06/2026
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 73/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 74/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 75/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 76/06/2026
148
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Human
Resource Management / Development / Public Management / Public
Administration will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in the Record Management environment or related field. A valid
driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills:
Problem Solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management. Change
Management. Knowledge and understanding of the relevant legislative
frameworks and policies. Functional Computer Literacy (MS Word, Excel,
PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to compile report. Strong communication skills
(written and verbal), Good interpersonal skills, planning, and organisational
skills. Good record keeping skills.
DUTIES : Monitor the creation, maintenance, usage, scanning, replenishing and disposal
of records. Monitor and maintain personnel files Provide and maintain internal
records management services. Monitor and attend to clients and register hand
delivered mail/files.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/162 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE CONDITIONS OF
SERVICE (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: Human Resource Management, Conditions of Service/Corporate
Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Head Office Ref No: LDOE 77/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 78/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 79/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification/s in Human
Resource Management / Public Administration / Public Management will be an
added advantage. Certificate PERSAL. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in the Record Management environment or related field. A valid
driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills:
Problem – solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and organizing
skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power Point and
MS Outlook).
DUTIES : Monitor the conditions of service for Employment of Educators and Public
Service staff. Monitor the capturing and processing of employee benefits
(housing allowances, leaves, pensions, overtime, long service awards, etc.)
Monitor the termination of staff Update of resignation transactions on electronic
database for tracking and the personnel file. Approve / Disapprove conditions
of service transactions on PERSAL. Compile monthly statistical reports and
management reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/163 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE PROVISIONING (X7
POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Management / Human Resource Management,
Provisioning
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 80/06/2026
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDOE 81/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDOE 82/06/2026
Head Office Ref No: LDOE 83/06/2026 (X4 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. A qualification/s in Human
Resource Management / Public Administration / Public Management will be an
added advantage. Certificate PERSAL. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in the Record Management environment or related field. A valid
driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills:
Problem – solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service Regulatory Framework.
Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and organizing
skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power Point and
MS Outlook).
149
DUTIES : Provide for provisioning of Human Resource provisioning. Monitor the
provisioning of personnel for the Employment of Educators and Public Service
Acts Staff. Monitor the recruitment of both the Employment of Educators and
Public Service Acts staff. Monitor the transfers of Employment of Educators
and Public Service Acts Staff. Monitor the secondment of Employment of
Educators and Public Service Acts Staff. Processing grade progression and
translation in ranks for Employment of Educators and Public Service Acts Staff.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/164 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: LEARNING AND TEACHING SUPPORT
MATERIALS & LIBRARY SERVICES (X2 POSTS)
Directorate: Learning and Teaching Support Materials & Library Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 84/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 85/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA.A qualification/s in Financial
Management / Internal Auditing / Cost Management / Accounting will be an
added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in the Record
Management environment or related field. A valid driver’s license except for
people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge and understanding
of the financial legislative frameworks. Functional Computer Literacy (MS
Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook). Ability to compile report. Strong
communication skills, (written and verbal), good interpersonal skills, problem
solving skills, plaining and organizational skills. Good record keeping. Good
analytical skills.
DUTIES : Monitor LTSM requisitions from schools. Capture requisitions from schools.
Monitor retrieval of LTSM by schools. Monitor retention of LTSM by schools.
Co-ordinate education library services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/165 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
(X17 POSTS)
Directorate: Performance Management System
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 86/06/2026
Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 87/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 88/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 89/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 90/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 91/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 92/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 93/06/2026 (X3 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualifications as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Human
Resource Management / Development / Public Administration / Public
Management will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in the Human Resource Development environment or related field.
A valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills:
Problem – solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service regulatory and legislative
Framework. Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and
organising skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Good interpersonal skills. Planning and
organisational skills. Good record keeping.
DUTIES : Co-ordinate the implementation of the Performance Management System
(PMS). Administer and maintain the PMS database. Monitor the performance
assessment and payment of incentives.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
150
POST 28/166 : PERSONNEL PRACTITIONER: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT (X14
POSTS)
Directorate: Corporate Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 94/06/2026
Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 95/06/2026
Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 96/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 97/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe West Ref No: LDoE 98/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Waterberg Ref No: LDoE 99/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe East Ref No: LDoE 100/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE 101/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualifications as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Human
Resource Management / Development / Public Administration/Public
Management will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in the Human Resource Development environment or related field.
A valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills:
Problem – solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service regulatory and legislative
Framework. Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and
organising skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Good interpersonal skills. Planning and
organisational skills. Good record-keeping skills.
DUTIES : Monitor the management and implementation of skills development. Facilitate
training development processes and programmers. Assist in conducting skills
auditing and reporting. Provide support in the development of Workplace Skills
Plan (WSP). Co-ordinate learnerships and internship programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/167 : EMPLOYEE HEALTH & WELLNESS PRACTITIONER (X10 POSTS)
Directorate: Labour Relations & Wellness Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 102/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE 103/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 104/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 105/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 106/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 107/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification in Social Work / Psychology as recognised by SAQA.
A qualification / Course in EAP or HIV will be an added advantage. Minimum
of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in Employee Health and Wellness or
related field. Registration with a professional body, the South African Council
for Social Service Profession (SACSSP) or Health Professions Council of
South Africa (HPCSA). A valid driver’s licence except for people with
disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Knowledge of EHW Strategic Framework.
Knowledge of National Strategic Plan on HIV, STIs & TB. Project Management
skills. Presentation skills. Reporting, negotiation. Ability to maintain
confidentiality. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS
PowerPoint and MS Outlook).
DUTIES : Provide HIV counselling & peer support services. Implement the HIV, STIs &
TB programs. Monitor & evaluate internal and external stakeholders.
Implement Wellness Management programs. Provide psychosocial support
(individual & group) to employees & their immediate families. Provide trauma
debriefing and coordinate grief or crisis management following emergencies.
Coordinate and facilitate information sessions, workshops, events and health
campaigns (on stress, HIV/AIDS, mental health etc) to educate employees.
Promote physical wellness & sports initiatives and advocate good nutrition.
Compile district monthly, quarterly & annual reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
151
POST 28/168 : LABOUR RELATION OFFICER (X6 POSTS)
Directorate: Labour Relations & Wellness Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 108/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 109/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 110/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. A qualification in Labour
Relations / Labour Law / Human Resource Management will be an added
advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in Employee Health
and Wellness or related field A valid driver’s licence except for people with
disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Problem – solving and analysis. Programme
& Project Management. Knowledge and understanding of the Public Service
regulatory and legislative Frameworks. Excellent communication (verbal and
written) skills. Planning and organizing skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS
Word, MS Excel, MS Power Point and MS Outlook). Good interpersonal skills.
Planning and organizational skills. Good record keeping skills.
DUTIES : Investigate misconduct cases. Handle individual and collective complaints,
grievances and disputes. Monitor disciplinary hearings. Provide support on the
interpretation and implementation of various Labour Relations frameworks.
Compile reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/169 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: ASSETS MANAGEMENT SERVICES (X4
POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 111/06/2026
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE 112/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 113/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 114/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Financial
Management / Auditing / Cost Management / Supply Chain Management /
Logistics / Purchasing Management / Business Management / Financial
Accounting will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in Supply Chain Management environment or related field. A valid
driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills:
Problem – solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the SCM. NQF level 6 qualification as
recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Financial Management/ Auditing/ Cost
Management / Supply Chain Management / Logistics / Purchasing
Management / Business Management / Financial Accounting will be an added
advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in Supply Chain
Management environment or related field. A valid driver’s license except for
people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Problem – solving and analysis.
Programme & Project Management. Knowledge and understanding of the SCM
legislative frameworks. Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills.
Planning and organising skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS
Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Good interpersonal skills. Planning
and organisational skills. Good record keeping skills. ative frameworks.
Excellent communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and organising
skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and
MS Outlook). Good interpersonal skills. Planning and organisational skills.
Good record keeping skills.
DUTIES : Monitor and implement asset management policy and procedures.
Maintenance asset register. Tracking asset movement & location. Conducting
regular audits. Updating asset record and databases. Preparing reports on
asset performance and status’s-ordinate asset disposal management services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
152
POST 28/170 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES (X5
POSTS)
Directorate: Supply Chain Management
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Head office Ref No: LDOE 115/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDOE 116/06/2026
Vhembe West District Ref No: LDOE 117/06/2026
Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDOE 118/06/2026
Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDOE 119/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Financial
Management / Auditing / Cost Management / Supply Chain Management /
Logistics / Purchasing Management / Business Management / Financial
Accounting will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in Supply Chain Management environment or related field. A valid
driver’s licence except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and Skills:
Problem – solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge and understanding of the SCM legislative frameworks. Excellent
communication (verbal and written) skills. Planning and organising skills.
Functional Computer literacy (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS
Outlook). Good interpersonal skills. Planning and organisational skills. Good
record keeping skills.
DUTIES : Provide administrative support services relating to transport/fleet management
services. Monitor log sheets, fuel allowances reports, fleet insurances. Monitor
vehicle maintenance and compliance services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/171 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER, EDUCATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
SYSTEM (EMIS) (X5 POSTS)
Directorate: EMIS
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Capricorn South Ref No: LDOE 120/06/2026
Sekhukhune East Ref No: LDOE 121/06/2026
Sekhukhune South Ref No: LDOE 122/06/2026
Vhembe East Ref No: LDOE 123/06/2026
Mopani West Ref No: LDoE 124/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA.A qualification in Information
Technology / Information System / Computer Sciences / Statistics will be an
added advantage Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in Education
Management Information System (EMIS) environment or related field. A valid
driver’s licence except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills:
Problem – solving and analysis. Programme & Project Management.
Knowledge of Data Management and IT. Excellent communication (verbal and
written) skills. Planning and organising skills. Functional Computer literacy (MS
Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint and MS Outlook). Good interpersonal skills.
Planning and organisational skills. Good record keeping skills.
DUTIES : Monitor and implement Education Management Information System (EMIS)
services. Implement data quality audits. Implement policy on data
management. Manage the leaner unit record information and tracking system.
Prepare statistical reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/172 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: DISTRICT MANAGEMENT OFFICE REF NO:
LDOE 125/06/2026
Directorate: Office of the District Director
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Mopani West District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognised by SAQA. A qualification in Secretary
/ Management Assistant / Office Administration will be an added advantage.
Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in office
management/administration or related field. A valid driver’s license except for
people with disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Functional computer literacy (Ms
word, PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook). Report writing skills. Strong
153
communication skills (written and verbal), Good interpersonal skills, problem-
solving skills, Planning and organisational skills. Good record keeping.
Customer service skills. Problem solving skills. Confidentiality and
professionalism. Time management.
DUTIES : Keep and update District Director`s dairy daily. Provide secretarial/receptionist
support services to the District Director. Records the engagements of the
District Director. Ensure the effective flow of information and documents to and
from the Office of the District Director. Arrange appointments for the District
Director, taking minutes, prepare agendas, confirmatory notes, memorandums,
letters, etc. Handle classified documents. Manage general office duties.
Provide hospitality services to guest and visitor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/173 : ADMINISTRATION OFFICER: SPECIAL PROJECTS (X3 POSTS)
Directorate: Learner Social Support Programmes
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 126/06/2026
Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 127/06/2026
Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 128/06/2026
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification in Secretary
/Management Assistant/ Office Administration will be an added advantage.
Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in management/administration
or related field. A valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities.
Knowledge & Skills: Knowledge and understanding of the relevant legislative
frameworks. Functional computer literacy (Ms word, PowerPoint, Excel and
Outlook). Report writing skills. Strong communication skills, (written and
verbal), Good interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, Planning and
organizational skills. Good record keeping. Customer service skills. Problem
solving skills. Confidentiality and professionalism. Time management.
DUTIES : Monitor the provision of National School Nutrition Programme (NSNP). Monitor
the provision of Scholar Transport. Monitor the provision of Expanded Public
Works Programme (EPWP).
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/174 : ICT GOVERNANCE OFFICER: IT INFRASTRUCTURE REF NO: LDOE
129/06/2026
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification/s in
Information Technology will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’
relevant experience in the Information Technology environment or related field.
A valid driver’s license except for people with disabilities. Knowledge and Skills:
Knowledge and understanding of IT regulatory and legislative policies and
frameworks. Change Management skills. Communication skills. Report writing
skills. Accuracy. Team player. Willing to work under changing and difficult
circumstances. Innovation and creativity. Time and self-management.
DUTIES : Monitor, configure and maintain network services. Monitor IT procurement
services. Monitor effective utilization and management of IT assets.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/175 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT: CHIEF DIRECTOR
Directorate: Strategic Planning Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. A qualification/s in Secretary
/ Management Assistant / Office Administration will be an added advantage.
Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in office management /
administration or related field. A valid driver’s license except for people with
disabilities. Knowledge and skills: Functional computer literacy (Ms word,
PowerPoint, Excel and Outlook). Report writing skills. Strong communication
154
skills, (written and verbal), Good interpersonal skills, problem solving skills,
Planning and organizational skills. Good record keeping. Customer service
skills. Problem solving skills. Confidentiality and professionalism. Time
management.
DUTIES : Keep and update Chief Director`s dairy on a daily basis. Provide a secretarial
/ receptionist support services to the Chief Director. Records the engagements
of the Chief Director. Ensure the effective flow of information and documents
to and from the Office of the Chief Director. Arrange appointments for the Chief
Director, taking minutes, prepare agendas, confirmatory notes, memorandums,
letters, etc. Handle classified documents. Manage general office duties.
Provide hospitality services to guest and visitor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/176 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
Directorate: Early Childhood Development (Conditional Grant)
(Contract 3 Years)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA.A qualification in the
Construction / Facility Maintenance / Project Management will be an added
advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant experience in Construction /
Facility Maintenance / Project Management or related field. Knowledge and
skills: Data capturing skills. Good communication skills and flexibility. Time
management, planning and organization skills. Ability to function independently
and as part of a team. Functional Computer literacy - Advanced computer skills
in Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
DUTIES : Record, organize, store, capture and retrieve correspondence and data (line
function). Update registers and statistics. Handle routine enquiries. Make
photocopies and receive or send facsimile. Distribute documents/packages to
various stakeholders as required. Keep and maintain the filling system for the
infrastructure unit. Type basic letters and/or other correspondence when
required. Keep and maintain the incoming and outgoing register of the
infrastructure unit, distribute documents/packages to various stakeholders as
required. Render secretariat services for the Departmental Infrastructure unit.
Capturing of information of project information on Infrastructure Reporting
Model (IRM) and Education Facility Management System (EFMS).
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/177 : STATE ACCOUNTANT: ECD EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REF NO:
LDOE 580/06/2026
Directorate: Early Childhood Development (Conditional Grant)
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Capricorn North
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. A qualification in
Finance/Accounting will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’
relevant experience in Early Childhood Development or related field. Valid
driver’s license (with exception of people with disabilities license Knowledge
and skills: Sound knowledge of the Public Finance Management Act and
Treasury Regulations. Ability to understand, interpret and correctly apply
financial policies and prescripts. Understanding of the financial and accounting
processes. Well-developed reasoning, mathematical, analytical, innovative
thinking and problem-solving ability. Ability to effectively compile and present
reports. Well-developed verbal, written communication skills with good inter-
personal relations. Ability to effectively lease and communicate with clients.
Team player, receptive to suggestions and focused on zero defect. Positive,
loyal, creative and trustworthy. Functional computer literacy (Microsoft Word,
Excel and PowerPoint)
DUTIES : Process financial transactions in accordance with ECD applicable legislation
and policies. Ensure proper allocation and recording of expenditure and
revenue. Monitor financial activities to ensure compliance with approved
budgets. Assist with the preparation of annual and medium-term budgets.
Monitor expenditure against budget allocations. Analyze variances and provide
recommendations to management. Expenditure management: Budget
155
reporting, expenditure projections and reports. Verify and process payments to
ECD Centre’s. Ensure that expenditure is authorized and supported by relevant
documentation. Monitor commitments and prevent unauthorized, irregular,
fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Prepare monthly, quarterly and annual
financial reports. Compile management reports for decision-making purposes.
Assist in the preparation of Annual Financial Statements (AFS). Provide
financial information required by Auditors. Reconciliation of payment made to
ECD Centre’s. Ensuring payments to all funded ECD center’s on time. Execute
all queries emanating from suppliers promptly and compile a prompt response
to all audit queries relating to accounts payable. Reporting and rectifying any
deviation found i.r.o contract/instruction and delegations prior to approval of
payments. Follow up on all payment’s documents received late for payments
and make sure that appropriate preventative action is taken in respect thereof.
Preparation of journals and reconciliation of all ECD centers paid quarterly.
Knowledge in respect of foreign payments. Reporting all financial misconduct
as required by the prescripts. Keeping the relevant statistics for management
purposes. Ensure the safe keeping of all transactions supporting
documentation, files and data for audit purposes in accordance with prescripts.
center’s. Consolidate weekly, monthly, and quarterly reports. Attend National,
Provincial and District meetings.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/178 : DATA ADMINISTRATION: SUPPORT OFFICER REF NO: LDOE 581/06/2026
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Vhembe East District
REQUIREMENTS : NQF Level 6 qualification as recognized by SAQA. A qualification in Information
Technology will be an added advantage. Minimum of 01 - 02 years’ relevant
experience in IT or related field. Valid driver’s license (with exception of people
with disabilities license Knowledge and skills: Strong functional computer
literacy (MS Office, online systems, Excel, data entry/platforms). Practical
experience using information systems or databases. Intermediate data
analysis and reporting skills. Training facilitation and user support skills.
Document management and verification. Well-developed reasoning,
innovative thinking and problem-solving ability. Ability to effectively compile and
present reports. Strong computer and digital literacy skills, with the ability to
confidently use multiple systems and applications. Data analysis and reporting
skills at an intermediate level, including identifying trends, gaps, and
inconsistencies. Training facilitation and user support skills, including the ability
to explain technical concepts in a clear and practical manner. Problem-solving
and analytical thinking skills, with the ability to develop practical solutions to
operational and system-related challenges. Effective verbal and written
communication skills suited to engagement with district officials and ECD
service providers.
DUTIES : Provide first-line support to district officials and ECD center’s on cares usage,
data capture, and troubleshooting. Provide technical support to users with data
collection, document uploads, enrolment updates, and system transactions.
Escalate unresolved technical issues to provincial or national support
structures where required. Support continuous improvement of training
approaches based on user feedback and district user needs. Promote a culture
of data use, learning, and accountability within district ECD structures. Provide
data management and maintenance support to district users Manage
Provincial ECD database for accessing and funded ECD Centre’s Responsible
for cleaning ECD enrolled children Means of verifications Experience
supporting system rollouts, training, or user support (preferably in education or
ECD). Demonstrated computer literacy and confidence working with digital
systems. Willingness to travel within the district and work directly with users
on-site.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
156
POST 28/179 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE (X31 POSTS)
Directorate: District Management & Institutional Governance (Inclusive
Education & Special Schools
SALARY : R337 359 per annum
CENTRE : Asiphumelele Special School: Sekhukhune: South District Ref No: LDoE
309/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Pfunanani Special School: Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 310/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Ramokgwakgwa Special School: Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE
311/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Nthabiseng Special School: Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 312/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Yingisani Special School: Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 313/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Lebone Special School: Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 314/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Letaba Special School: Mopani West District Ref No: LDoE 315/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Rivoni School for the Blind: Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE 316/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Tshilwavhusiku Special School Vhembe West District Ref No: LDoE
317/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Tshilidzini Special School: Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 318/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Fulufhelo Special School: Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 319/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Ratanang Special School: Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 320/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Rethuseng Special School: Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE 321/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Grace and Hope Special School Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
322/06/2026 (X2 Posts)
Grace and Love Special School Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE
323/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Benedict and Hope Special School: Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
324/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Helene Frans Special School Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
325/06/2026 (X1 Post)
New Horizon Special School: Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
326/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Mhinga Special School: Vhembe East District Ref No: LDoE 327/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Lebone Special School: Mogalakwena District Ref No: LDoE 328/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Jane Furse Special School: Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
329/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Bosele School for the Blind Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
330/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Rehlahleng Special School: Sekhukhune East District Ref No: LDoE
331/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Susan Strydom Special School Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 332/06/2026
(X1 Post)
Sedibeng Special SchoolWaterberg District Ref No: LDoE 333/06/2026 (X2
Posts)
Setotolwane Special School Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
334/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Thusanang Special School Waterberg District Ref No: LDoE 335/06/2026 (X1
Post)
Tsoga-o itirele Special School Capricorn South District Ref No: LDoE
336/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Phatlaphadima Special School Capricorn North District Ref No: LDoE
337/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Asiphumelele Special School Sekhukhune South District Ref No: LDoE
338/06/2026 (X1 Post)
Pfunanani Special School Mopani East District Ref No: LDoE 339/06/2026 (X1
Post)
157
REQUIREMENTS : An NQF level 6 or 7 qualification in Nursing as recognized by SAQA. Valid and
active registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Certificate of registration as a Professional Nurse.
Relevant nursing experience. A valid driver’s license with exception of people
living with disability. Competencies, Knowledge and Skills: Knowledge of
school health services. Communication and interpersonal skills. Record
keeping and report writing. Ability to work with learners with disabilities.
DUTIES : Provide functional and generic nursing competencies. Provide Health
assessments for learners with special needs. Administer medication. support
and monitor learners with chronic illnesses. Provide preventive care and
promote good hygiene practices Conduct regular screenings to detect health
problems in the early stages. Network and engage with stakeholders in the
community. Update learner records. write referrals to other health practitioners
and community health centers for intervention. remediation and follow up.
Actively participate in the multidisciplinary support structures like being a
member of the School Based Support Team (SBST). Promote health and
wellness programmes.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/180 : LEGAL ADMINISTRATION OFFICER REF NO: LDOE 576/06/2026
Directorate: Information Technology Services
SALARY : R262 968 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 7 qualification in LLB/B. Proc as recognized by SAQA.A minimum of
5 years’ appropriate post qualification legal experience. Valid driver’s license
except for people with disabilities. Competencies. Knowledge and Skills: In
depth knowledge and understanding of the public sector regulatory and
governance environment including, PFMA, MFMA, Treasury Regulations, B-
BBEE Act, PPPFA, Constitution of the Republic of SA, POPIA, PAIA, PAJA and
PSA. Knowledge of Procurement and Supply Chain Laws, Public
Administration Laws, Law of Contract, Public Finance Law, Labour Law
Interpretation of Statutes, including provincial government policies, processes
and procedures. Candidate must be computer literate. I innovative and
competent. They must have good communication and 241 drafting skills.
analytical and researching skills. presentation and reporting skills. leadership
skills. ability to work in a team and under extensive pressure. problem-solving
and have sound organizing and planning skills. Functional Computer Literacy
- MS Word. MS Excel, MS Power Point and MS Outlook.
DUTIES : Manage the provision of effective and efficient legal services to the department.
Provide administration support. reporting and developmental support of junior
employees or interns in the legal services unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
POST 28/181 : DRIVER/MESSENGER REF NO: LDOE 579/06/2026
Directorate: Inclusive Education and Special Schools
SALARY : R201 093 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : Grade 12 Valid Code 10 driver’s licence with PDP. 3 years’ bus driving
experience will be an added advantage. Driver’s competency test will be
conducted before appointment.
DUTIES : Responsible to transport learners in Special Schools to and from school by
following designated routes and schedule. Follow traffic laws. Capable of
communicating with learners, parents and school staff. Assist learners in safe
loading and off - loading learners. Inform school’s personnel and parents of
incidents to maintain proper procedures. Performs pre - and post - trip
inspection. Supervise learners during transit for the purpose of maintaining
safety and following Departmental policies. Conduct safety and operational
inspection of assigned vehicle daily. Reports needed mechanical repairs when
necessary Performs periodical safety drills as required by law, completing
necessary reports upon request. Delivery and collections: Collect and deliver
documents, correspondence, mail, packages, and other items from places
such as the post office, other departments, and external stakeholders.
Purchase and loading: buying and loading equipment, groceries for the
158
institution. Health support: Taking learners to clinic and hospitals. Route
Planning: Plan and follow the most efficient routes using maps or GPS to
ensure timely delivery and avoid traffic delays. Vehicle Maintenance: Perform
pre-trip and post-trip inspections, ensure the vehicle is fuelled, clean, and well-
maintained, and report any issues or arrange for necessary repairs. Record
Keeping: Complete and maintain all required records and logbooks regarding
trips, mileage, fuel consumption, and goods handled. General Support: Assist
with general office or clerical work, such as filing, photocopying, running
errands, and loading and unloading items. Customer Service: Interact with
clients and customers in a professional and courteous manner, potentially
collecting payments or obtaining signatures for deliveries.
ENQUIRIES : Mr Lukheli TV at 081 535 3675, Mr. Ramaru TE at 067 873 7345, Mesdames
Mmowa LS at 081 532 6059, Phasiwe N at 081 550 2664
PROVINCIAL TREASURY
The Limpopo Provincial Treasury is an equal opportunity and affirmative action Employer and is
committed to the promotion of equity in terms of the race, gender, and disability through filling of post(s)
with candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representativity in line with
numerical targets as contained in the Employment Equity Plan.
APPLICATIONS : Applicants may apply through the following website:
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za or Applicants should be submitted to:
Director: Human Resource Management, Private Bag X9486, Polokwane,
0700 OR Hand delivered to: ISMINI Towers Building, Office No. GOO2
(Ground Floor) Registry, 46 Hans van Ransburg Street, Polokwane, 0700. All
General enquiries should be directed to Mesdames, Kotze Elizba, Chaka
Pearl, Kgadima Conny, Moremi Hilda & Mr. Nduli J.S. @ (015) 298 7000.
CLOSING DATE : 28 August 2026 @ 16H00. Late applications will not be considered.
NOTE : Limpopo Provincial Treasury is committed to enhancing youth employability
and improving service delivery through integrated skills development. We
therefore invite applications from suitability qualified graduates for Twenty (20)
Opportunities for Occupational Certificate: Internal Audit for a period of Twenty-
Four (24) months contract that exist in the Department. Applications must be
submitted on new Z83 forms obtainable from all Government Departments or
can be downloaded from www.dpsa.gov.za. The new the Z83 form must be
completed in a manner that provides sufficient information about the candidate
and the post he or she applies for by completing all relevant fields. The
declaration must be signed in order for an applicant to be considered. The
following must be considered in relation to the completion of the Z83 by
applicants: All the fields in Part A, Part C and Part D should be completed. In
Part B, all fields should be completed in full except the following: (i) South
African applicants need not provide passport numbers (ii) If an applicant
responds “no” to the question “Are you conducting business with the State or
are you a Director of a Public or Private Company conducting business with
the State?” then the answer to the next question “In the event that you are
employed in the Public Service you immediately relinquish such business
interests?” can be left blank or indicated as not applicable. (iii) A “not
applicable” or blank response will be allowed on the question “If your profession
or occupation requires official registration, provide date and particulars of
registration”, if you are not in possession of such registration. Noting there is
limited space provided for Part E, F & G, applicants often indicate “refer to
Curriculum Vitae (CV) or see attached”, this is acceptable as long as the CV
has been attached and provides the required information. If the information is
not provided in the CV, the applicant may be disqualified. It must be noted that
a CV is an extension of the application of employment Z83, and applicants are
accountable for the information that is provided therein. Applicants currently
employed by the public service do not need to complete Part F as the section
is intended for those seeking re-employment, as their prior employment can be
verified through their CV. The declaration should be completed and signed.
Applicants must utilise the most recent Z83 application for employment form
as issued by the Minister of Public Service and Administration in line with
Regulation 10 of the Public Service Regulations, 2016, failure to do so results
in disqualifications. Applicants are not required to submit copies of
qualifications and other relevant documents on application but must submit the
Z83 and detailed Curriculum Vitae. The Z83 form must be completed in the
159
manner that allows the selection committee to assess the quality of the
candidate based on the information that is contained in the form. The
Department will require shortlisted candidates to provide certified copies of
their qualifications and any other relevant documents, which must be submitted
to HR on or before the interview date. A specific reference number for the post
applied for must be quoted in the space provided on new form Z83. Applicants
with foreign qualifications remain responsible for ensuring that their
qualifications are evaluated by the South African Qualifications Authority
(SAQA) and therefore must submit the copies of certificates and evidence of
evaluation by the SAQA for foreign qualification if they are invited to attend
interviews. Successful incumbents will be expected to sign a performance
agreement within one month after assumption of duty. All shortlisted candidates
will be subjected to a security clearance and verification of qualifications.
Shortlisted applicants will be required to provide their original qualification
certificates and ID on the day of the interview for verification purposes. The
recommended candidate for appointment will be subjected to Personnel
Suitability Checks, such as Disclosure of her/his financial interests, social
media checks, verification checks and certification of claimed qualifications.
Correspondence will be limited to short-listed candidates only due to the large
number of applications we envisage to receive. If you have not heard from the
Department within 90 days of the closing date, please accept that your
application has been unsuccessful. However, should there be any
dissatisfaction, applicants are hereby advised to, within 90 days, request
reasons from the Department for any administrative action which has adversely
affected them in terms of section 5, sub-section 1 and 2 of the Promotion of
Administrative Justice Act 3 of 2000. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment to the post advertised. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. Failure to
comply with the above requirements will result in the disqualification of the
application. Limpopo Treasury is committed to enhancing youth employability
and improving service delivery through integrated skills development by
implementing Occupational Certificate: Internal Audit Learning Programme.
Career aspiration to pursue the following professional qualifications, amongst
others: IAM / CIA / CISA / CFE / CA SA / Data Analytics.
CONDITIONS FOR OPPORTUNITIES FOR OCCUPATIONAL CERTIFICATE: INTERNAL AUDIT
(24-month contract)
NOTE : Applicants should be SA Citizens and residents of Limpopo. Candidates should
not have participated on the programme before. Candidates will sign a 24-
month contract with the department and attend knowledge module sessions
facilitated by the Leadership Academy for Guardians of Guardians spread
throughout the 24-month period. Candidates will be subjected to personnel
suitability check. The advert will also be accessible on the following websites
https://erecruitment.limpopo.gov.za / www.limtreasury.gov.za /
www.limpopo.gov.za / and www.dpsa.gov.za
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/182 : OPPORTUNITIES FOR OCCUPATIONAL CERTIFICATE: INTERNAL AUDIT
REF NO: LPT/IAT/1-11 (X11 POSTS)
Branch: Shared Internal Audit Services (SIAS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Auditing / Risk Management as recognized by
SAQA. Knowledge & Skills: Good command of English language, both spoken
and written. High academic performance with the following competencies:
planning and organising skills, analysing skills, ability to achieve personal work
goals and objectives, ability to work well with people, ability to present and
communicate information, and ability to deliver results and meet customer
expectations.
DUTIES : Assist Senior Internal Auditors in preparing working papers for audit and ensure
quality assurance of audit work in terms of IIA Standards. Assist Senior Internal
Auditors in conducting audit assignments according to approved audit plan and
procedures. Uphold the Institute of Internal Auditors SA’s Code of Ethics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Conny Kgadima @ 015 298 7012
160
POST 28/183 : OPPORTUNITIES FOR OCCUPATIONAL CERTIFICATE: INTERNAL AUDIT
REF NO: LPT/IAT/12-16 (X5 POSTS)
Branch: Shared Internal Audit Services (SIAS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Accounting / Financial Management as recognised
by SAQA. Knowledge & Skills: Good command of English language, both
spoken and written. High academic performance with the following
competencies: planning and organising skills, analysing skills, ability to achieve
personal work goals and objectives, ability to work well with people, ability to
present and communicate information, and ability to deliver results and meet
customer expectations.
DUTIES : Assist Senior Internal Auditors in preparing working papers for audit and ensure
quality assurance of audit work in terms of IIA Standards. Assist Senior Internal
Auditors in conducting audit assignments according to approved audit plan and
procedures. Uphold the Institute of Internal Auditors SA’s Code of Ethics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Conny Kgadima @ 015 298 7012
POST 28/184 : OPPORTUNITIES FOR OCCUPATIONAL CERTIFICATE: INTERNAL AUDIT
REF NO. LPT/IAT/17 – 20 (X4 POSTS)
Branch: Shared Internal Audit Services (SIAS)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum (Level 05)
CENTRE : Head Office – Polokwane
REQUIREMENTS : NQF level 6 qualification in Information Systems / AI assisted tools as
recognized by SAQA. Knowledge & Skills: Good command of English
language, both spoken and written. High academic performance with the
following competencies: planning and organising skills, analysing skills, ability
to achieve personal work goals and objectives, ability to work well with people,
ability to present and communicate information, and ability to deliver results
and meet customer expectations.
DUTIES : Assist Senior Internal Auditors in preparing working papers for audit and ensure
quality assurance of audit work in terms of IIA Standards. Assist Senior Internal
Auditors in conducting audit assignments according to approved audit plan and
procedures. Uphold the Institute of Internal Auditors SA’s Code of Ethics.
ENQUIRIES : Ms Conny Kgadima @ 015 298 7012
161
ANNEXURE V
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: MPUMALANGA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
The Department of Health is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. It is our intention to
promote representivity in respect of race, gender and disability through the filling of these positions.
Candidates whose transfer / promotion / appointment will promote representivity will receive preference.
APPLICATIONS : Departmental Online Application System: www.mpuhealth.gov.za
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : N.B. Applicants are advised to apply as early as possible to avoid
disappointments. Applicants are not required to submit copies of qualifications
and other relevant documents on application but must submit the Z83 and a
detailed Curriculum Vitae. In order to alleviate administration burden on HR
Sections as well as considering the cost for applicants, Departments are
encouraged to request certified copies of qualifications and other relevant
documents from shortlisted candidates only which may be submitted to HR on
or before the day of the interview following communication from the relevant
HR section of the Department. All posts health/engineering posts that are
advertised within the Department professional registration will be required from
various statutory council for shortlisted candidates. A complete set of
application documents should be submitted separately for every post that you
wish to apply for. Please ensure that you clearly state the full post description
and the relevant Post Reference Number on your application. No fax
applications will be considered. Applicants must ensure that they fully complete
and sign form Z83, even if they are attaching a CV. Incomplete and/or unsigned
applications will not be considered. If you are currently in service, please
indicate your PERSAL number at the top of form Z83. Due to ongoing internal
processes, the Department reserves the right to withdraw any post at any time.
The Department reserves the right to verify the qualifications of every
recommended candidate prior to the issuing of an offer of appointment. All
short listed candidates will be subject to a vetting process prior to appointment.
If no response is received from Mpumalanga Department of Health within 90
days after the closing date of the advertisement, applicants must assume that
their application was not successful. Please quote the Correct references when
applying and where possible the station / centre where the post is.
www.mpuhealth.gov.za Only Online Applications will be accepted. NB:
Candidates who are not contacted within 90 days after the closing date must
consider their applications as having been unsuccessful. Please note the
department reserves the right to amend / review / withdraw the advertised
posts if by so doing, the best interest of the department will be well served.
(People with disabilities are also requested to apply and indicate such in their
applications). All shortlisted candidates, including the SMS, shall undertake two
pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical exercise to determine a
candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical and generic requirements
and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct) assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/185 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 - 3: ANESTHESIOLOGY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1221
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 395 528 - R1 479 723 per annum
Grade 2: R1 592 274 - R1 688 553 per annum
Grade 3: R1 844 151 - R2 301 186 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (2) (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Specialist in Anesthesiology
(2026). A valid work permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health
and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations,
history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical management.
Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist
(Independent Practice). Minimum of one 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognised Foreign Professions and/or the HPCSA as a
Medical Specialist (Anesthesiology) for foreign qualified employees. Grade: 2:
162
A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as
Medical Specialist (Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years’ relevant
experience after registration with a recognized foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist (Anesthesiology) for
qualified foreign employees. Grade 3: A minimum of ten (10) years’ experience
after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Specialist (Independent Practice).
Minimum of eleven (11) years’ relevant experience after registration with a
recognized foreign health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist (Anesthesiology) for qualified foreign employees. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : Supervising the management of and managing Anesthesiology and coordinate
services. To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims
and objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/186 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 3: GENERAL SURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1223 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: No experience
required after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognised Foreign Health Professions and / or the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign qualified
employees. Grade 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of
six (6) years relevant experience after registration with a recognised foreign
health profession council and/or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Grade 3: A minimum
of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant
experience after registration with a recognised foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice)
for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences
Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
163
ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to
manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/187 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1-3: NEURO SURGERY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1225
SALARY : R1 188 255 - R1 297 089 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 2: A minimum of five (5)
years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). A minimum of six (6) years relevant experience after
registration with a recognised foreign health profession council and / or the
HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign qualified
employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences Required: Sound
knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and
experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge,
competency and skills in general clinical domains. The ability to work under
supervision as an efficient team member. Good communication, leadership,
interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to manage patients independently,
diligently, responsibility and engage when necessary. Knowledge of current
health policies, legislation, programmes and priorities within the domain. Ability
to teach, guide and junior staff within the department. Behavioural Attributes:
Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence and the ability to build
and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/188 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1-3: SURGICAL WARD REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1226
SALARY : Grade 1: R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
164
Grade 2: R1 188 255 - R1 297 089 per annum
Grade 3: R1 375 245 - R1 713 534 per annum
CENTRE : Bethal Hospital (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner n Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as
a Medical Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). A valid work permit will
be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service regulations
and policies. Additional experience in Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Neurosurgery, Anaesthesiology, Urology and ENT will serve as
recommendation. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking, examination,
clinical assessment and clinical management. Grade 1: No experience
required after registration with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year relevant experience after
registration with a recognised Foreign Health Professions and / or the HPCSA
as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice) for foreign qualified
employees. Grade 2: A minimum of five (5) years’ experience after registration
with the HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of
six (6) years relevant experience after registration with a recognised foreign
health profession council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner
(Independent Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Grade 3: A minimum
of ten (10) years’ experience after registration with the HPCSA as Medical
Practitioner (Independent Practice). A minimum of eleven (11) years relevant
experience after registration with a recognised foreign health profession
council and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice)
for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and Competences
Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Sound
clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical domains. The
ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability to
manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/189 : MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1228 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R1 041 402 - R1 121 241 per annum
CENTRE : Daggakraal CHC (Gert Sibande District)
REQUIREMENTS : MBChB degree (qualification) that allows registration with the HPCSA as a
Medical Practitioner. Current registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Practitioner (2026) (Independent Practice). NB: The appointed Medical Officer
must be able to work shifts. A valid work permit will be required from non-South
Africans. Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary management
and teamwork and experience in the respective medical discipline. Knowledge
of current Health and Public Service regulations and policies. Skills in terms of
consultations, history taking, examination, clinical assessment and clinical
management. Grade 1: No experience required after registration with the
HPCSA as Medical Practitioner (Independent Practice). Minimum of 1-year
relevant experience after registration with a recognised Foreign Health
Professions and / or the HPCSA as a Medical Practitioner (Independent
Practice) for foreign qualified employees. Knowledge, Skills, Training and
165
Competences Required: Sound knowledge of medical ethics. Multidisciplinary
management and teamwork and experience in the respective medical
discipline. Sound clinical knowledge, competency and skills in general clinical
domains. The ability to work under supervision as an efficient team member.
Good communication, leadership, interpersonal, and supervisory skills. Ability
to manage patients independently, diligently, responsibility and engage when
necessary. Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programmes and
priorities within the domain. Ability to teach, guide and junior staff within the
department. Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team,
self-confidence and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the Institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programmes.
Assist with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional
development. Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient
standard of patient care and services is maintained.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/190 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING (PN-B4): CRITICAL CARE / TRAUMA &
EMERGENCY CARE REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1229
SALARY : R785 568 - R898 215 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the South
African Nursing Council in Terms of Government Notice R425, (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse (2026). A minimum of ten (10) years’
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as a
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. At least six (6) years
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience in the specific
specialty after obtaining the 1 year post basic qualification in Critical Care /
Trauma & Emergency Care Nursing Science. At least three (3) of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognisable experience at
management level. A Diploma / Degree in Nursing Administration and
Management will be an added advantage. Knowledge/skills: Basic computer
literacy, strong Leadership, Good communication and Sound Interpersonal
skills. Ability to work under pressure, manage own time, function as an effective
leader of the nursing team. Implement and manage change. Willingness to
work shifts and standby in accordance with the requirements of the unit and
nursing services. Report writing skills.
DUTIES : Delegate, Supervise and coordinate the provision of effective and efficient
patient care through adequate quality nursing care. Initiate and participate in
health promotion to ensure consistent communication of relevant, accurate and
comprehensive information on health care. Develop/establish and maintain
constructive work relationships with nursing and other stakeholders.
Participate in the analysis, formulation and implementation of nursing
guidelines, practices, standards, policies, PMDS, procedures, Contingency
and Strategic Plans. Monitor and ensure proper utilization of human, financial
and physical resources. Quality management including infection control,
information management and clinical audits. Participating in the analysis,
formulation and implementation of nursing guidelines, practices, standards and
procedures. Manage human resources. Monitor and ensure proper utilization
of financial and physical resources. Implement all relevant prescripts. Manage
and monitor proper utilization of human financial and material resources.
Manage the budget according to PFMA.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
166
POST 28/191 : ULTRASOUND RADIOGRAPHER (SONOGRAPHER) GRADE 1 REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1230
SALARY : R510 906 – R581 892 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in
either Radiography, Radiation Oncology Radiography, Ultrasound
Radiography or Mammography Radiography (2026). Current registration with
the HPCSA in either Radiation Oncology Radiography, Ultrasound
Radiography or Mammography Radiography (2026). Minimum of four (4) years
appropriate experience after registration with the Health Professional Council
of South Africa (HPCSA) as Diagnostic Radiographer. Competencies
(Knowledge/Skills): Ability to work independently and as part of a team. Ability
to organize and complete examinations in a timely manner. Demonstrate an
understanding of human anatomy, physiology, pathology and medical
terminology. Ability to perform high volume of ultrasound examinations to a high
standard. Good communication and interpersonal skills. Knowledge of relevant
public service regulations, Acts and policies.
DUTIES : Perform diagnostic ultrasound images examinations. Write reports in
accordance with prescribe protocols. Must be able to work independently
without supervision. Adhere and ensure compliance with Radiation Control
Board and HPCSA, Legislation Equipment Maintenance and do monthly stats
in ultrasound department. Partake and facilitate staff and student development.
Participate in CPD as required by HPCSA. High level of responsibility.
Complete appropriate documentation. Follow infection control and safety
guidelines. Ensure proper care in the use of x-ray equipment and supplies.
Perform general radiographic examinations, CT scan examinations,
Fluoroscopy examinations, and Theatre and ward radiographic examinations.
Render after-hour radiology services.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/192 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): ADVANCED MIDWIFERY REF
NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1232 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Advanced Midwifery
Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Ability to function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Advanced Midwifery Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
167
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/193 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OPERATING THEATRE REF
NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1233
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Operating Theatre
Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate / recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Ability to function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Operating Theatre Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/194 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): CRITICAL CARE / TRAUMA
& EMERGENCY CARE REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1224
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Critical Care / Trauma
& Emergency Care Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate
/recognizable experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse
with the SANC. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Good supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Critical Care / Trauma & Emergency Care Unit. Ensure effective
and efficient management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow
norms and standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise
and implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health
care in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession,
labour and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses
and other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and
168
Control policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time.
Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to
ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/195 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): CHILD HEALTH CARE REF
NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1226 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Critical Care Nursing
Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable experience in
nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC. Ability to
function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Child Health Care Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labor
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Ability
to prioritize, coordinate activities of patient management according to
protocols. Able to plan and organize your own work and that of support
personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and
performance management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and
deficiencies within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with
people of diverse intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure
adherence to Batho - Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/196 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-B1): OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1227
SALARY : R495 423 – R581 931 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse and Midwifery (2026), a post-basic
nursing qualification, with a duration of at least 1 year, accredited with the
SANC in terms of Government Notice R212 specialty in Occupational Health
Nursing Science. Minimum of four (4) years appropriate /recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC.
Ability to function independently and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound
interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-making skills. Good
supervisory and teaching skills.
169
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic specialized nursing care with set standards and
within a professional/legal framework. Provide comprehensive health care
services in the Occupational Health Unit. Ensure effective and efficient
management of resources. Provide quality patient care, follow norms and
standards. Participate in quality improvement programs. Supervise and
implement patient care standards. Implement and practice nursing health care
in accordance with the statutory laws governing the nursing profession, labour
and health care. Implement constructive working relations with nurses and
other stake holders. Ensure compliance of Infection Prevention and Control
policies. Ensure that the equipment is functional and ready all the time. Able to
plan and organize your own work and that of support personnel to ensure
proper nursing care. Participate in staff development and performance
management. Report patient safety incidence, challenges and deficiencies
within the unit. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with people of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Ensure adherence to Batho
- Pele Principles and Patient’s Right Charter.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/197 : RADIOGRAPHER GRADE 1 REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1229 (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : R413 121 - R472 359 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus an appropriate qualification that allows for
the required registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa
(HPCSA) in the relevant profession (where applicable) (2026). Grade 1: SA
Qualified employees: None after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees who performed
Community Service, as required in SA. Foreign Qualified employees: One (1)
year relevant experience after registration with the HPCSA in the relevant
profession (where applicable) in respect of employees of whom it is not
required to perform Community Service, as required in SA. Hospital experience
and extensive knowledge in Occupational Health and Safety will be an added
advantage. Good interpersonal Skills, written, verbal and presentation Skills.
Accuracy and attention to detail. Ability to work under pressure. Ability and
willingness to travel. Good interpersonal relationship, Leadership skill. Valid
drivers’ licence.
DUTIES : Ensure patient care during imaging for optimal diagnostic purpose: Explain
procedures to patients, prepare patient for imaging, Assist and position patient
for imaging, perform imaging. Practice radiation protection to minimize
radiation dose to staff, patients and general public: Establish LMC status of
female patients, adhere to radiation safety standards (secure area, lead aprons
etc), Apply correct radiation/exposure factors (correct dosages), Exercise
clinical responsibility to ensure optimal diagnostic imaging: Interpret clinical
history of patients to determine the correct procedure, ensure correct
positioning of patient to minimize radiation exposure to the patient, ensure
correct identification of patient image (name, lead markers etc.). Participate in
Education and training programs for continuous professional development and
quality service delivery: Practical training and evaluation of students Implement
quality assurance programs for quality service delivery, Check/test radiation
equipment and report faults, apply reject analysis, Adhere to policies and
protocols.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/198 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTIONER GRADE 1: MALARIA
CONTROL PROGRAMME REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1230
SALARY : R413 121 - R472 259 per annum
CENTRE : Mbombela–Masoyi Control Station (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Environmental Health / Public Health or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Independent Environmental Health
170
Practitioner (2026). Current registration with the HPCSA as an Independent
Environmental Health Practitioner. A valid driver's licence. Computer literacy.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound knowledge of
communicable disease control, environmental health legislation and public
health programmes. Ability to supervise and coordinate field teams, work
independently and under pressure, and travel extensively within the province.
Experience in malaria control, disease surveillance, outbreak response, vector
control, entomology or health promotion will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Coordinate and supervise malaria programme field teams responsible for
disease surveillance, vector control, entomological surveillance, and malaria
case management and health promotion activities. Plan, implement, monitor
and evaluate malaria elimination interventions in accordance with National and
Provincial policies, guidelines and operational plans. Coordinate and supervise
Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) operations, including planning,
implementation, and quality assurance and reporting. Coordinate malaria
disease surveillance activities, including case notification, case investigation,
case classification, reactive case detection, foci investigation and outbreak
response. Participate in community-based malaria screening, testing and
treatment activities in accordance with approved malaria case management
guidelines and standing operating procedures. Support active case detection,
household screening and follow-up of malaria cases to interrupt local
transmission. Coordinate entomological surveillance activities, including vector
monitoring, mosquito collections, insecticide resistance surveillance and
environmental assessments. Coordinate and implement malaria health
promotion, community mobilisation and behaviour change communication
activities. Supervise malaria programme personnel, monitor performance and
provide technical guidance and mentorship. Coordinate procurement planning,
stock management and distribution of malaria programme commodities.
Ensure proper asset management, inventory control and maintenance of
programme equipment. Monitor programme performance through routine data
collection, data quality assurance, analysis and reporting using approved
malaria information systems. Participate in operational planning, micro-
planning, monitoring and evaluation, operational research and continuous
quality improvement initiatives. Perform any other duties delegated by the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/199 : ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PRACTIONER GRADE 1: MALARIA
CONTROL PROGRAMME REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1231
Seven (7) Months Contract
SALARY : R413 121 - R472 259 per annum
CENTRE : Bushbuckridge Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : An appropriate National Diploma in Environmental Health / Public Health or
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as an Independent Environmental Health
Practitioner (2026). Current registration with the HPCSA as an Independent
Environmental Health Practitioner. A valid driver's licence. Computer literacy.
Good verbal and written communication skills. Sound knowledge of
communicable disease control, environmental health legislation and public
health programmes. Ability to supervise and coordinate field teams, work
independently and under pressure, and travel extensively within the province.
Experience in malaria control, disease surveillance, outbreak response, vector
control, entomology or health promotion will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Coordinate and supervise malaria programme field teams responsible for
disease surveillance, vector control, entomological surveillance, and malaria
case management and health promotion activities. Plan, implement, monitor
and evaluate malaria elimination interventions in accordance with National and
Provincial policies, guidelines and operational plans. Coordinate and supervise
Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) operations, including planning,
implementation, and quality assurance and reporting. Coordinate malaria
disease surveillance activities, including case notification, case investigation,
case classification, reactive case detection, foci investigation and outbreak
response. Participate in community-based malaria screening, testing and
171
treatment activities in accordance with approved malaria case management
guidelines and standing operating procedures. Support active case detection,
household screening and follow-up of malaria cases to interrupt local
transmission. Coordinate entomological surveillance activities, including vector
monitoring, mosquito collections, insecticide resistance surveillance and
environmental assessments. Coordinate and implement malaria health
promotion, community mobilisation and behaviour change communication
activities. Supervise malaria programme personnel, monitor performance and
provide technical guidance and mentorship. Coordinate procurement planning,
stock management and distribution of malaria programme commodities.
Ensure proper asset management, inventory control and maintenance of
programme equipment. Monitor programme performance through routine data
collection, data quality assurance, analysis and reporting using approved
malaria information systems. Participate in operational planning, micro-
planning, monitoring and evaluation, operational research and continuous
quality improvement initiatives. Perform any other duties delegated by the
supervisor.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/200 : PRINCIPAL PERSONNEL OFFICER REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1232
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 or equivalent plus three (3) years’ experience in
Human Resource unit or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Human
Resource Management, Public Administration / Public Management as
recognized by SAQA. At least a minimum of three (3) PERSAL courses is an
inherent requirement. Extensive knowledge of PERSAL includes interpreting
PERSAL reports. A Good understanding and Functional knowledge of the
Public Service Act, Public Service regulations, Basic condition of employment
Act, Employment Equity Act, Computer literacy, Good interpersonal skills,
Good written and verbal communication skills. Ability to work under pressure.
Sound communication and interpersonal skills. Analytical skills on problem
solving, decision making and organizational skills. Computer literacy
particularly MS, Excel, outlook & Word. A valid driver’s licence will serve as an
added advantage.
DUTIES : Implement and maintain human resource administration practices. Render
administrative functions including the following: recruitment and selection of
staff. HR provisioning (recruitment and selection, appointments, transfers,
verification of qualifications, vetting of candidates, secretarial functions for
interviews, absorptions of staff, probationary periods, etc. and also responsible
for conditions of service and benefits: leave salaries, leave graduates,
pensions, termination of services, procedure on Incapacity leave and ill-health,
housing allowance, overtime, translations and writing reports etc.). Coordinate
the Performance management system, address human resource
administration enquiries to ensure the correct implementation of human
resource management practices, inform, guide and advise the staff on human
resource administration matters to enhance the correct implementation of
human resource administration practices/policies. Assist with preparation of
reports on human resource administration issues and statistics. Coordinate the
implementation of recruitment and selection process. Provide support to Sub-
district Manager.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/201 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: AUXILIARY SERVICES REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1233
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital Internal Medicine (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Auxiliary
Services or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
172
Management. Knowledge of PFMA, Public Service Act, regulations and other
prescripts. Knowledge of office management. Computer literacy or Certificate
with practical knowledge of Microsoft programs (Word, Excel, PowerPoint and
Internet). Must possess the ability to plan, organize, supervise, inspect and
evaluate work of subordinates. Knowledge of OHS and infection Control. Valid
driver’s licence is essential. Good communication skills (written and verbal).
DUTIES : Implement policies and processes on office support services. Facilitate and
render general office support services (Porter, Mortuary, Switchboard services,
Security services and Messenger Services). Ensure compliance with National
Core Standards and ideal assessment tools. Leave matters and overtime
management. Provide advice to floor supervisors. Ensure security services are
in their post 24/7, and the Control Room is always active. Make rounds and
monitor security services, mortuary, porter, switchboard and messenger
services are performing the required duties and meeting deadlines. Take
responsibility for movement or transfer of corpses from various referral facilities
in collaboration with the wards and your supervisor. Be actively involved in
budgeting and budgetary control for these units. Ensure saving measures are
put in place. Apply disciplinary measures when necessary. Order, receive and
distribute materials and equipment for the units under your control. Manage
performance and development of staff. Attend meetings and give feedback.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/202 : ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: PATIENT ADMINISTRATION REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1234
SALARY : R338 106 per annum (Level 07), (plus service benefits)
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital Internal Medicine (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus three (3) years’ experience in Patient
Administration or Diploma / Degree (NQF Level 6/7) in Public Administration /
Public Management as recognized by SAQA. Extensive knowledge of
outpatient administration, reception in and help desk functions. Extensive
knowledge of PEIS, Billing system and UPFS user guide/procedure book.
Knowledge of Revenue policies and understanding of sector financial
administration and the provisions of PFMA. Knowledge of relevant prescripts
such as Government Gazette. Good communication skill, report writing skills
be computer literate and have ability to work under pressure. Be available to
work extra hours in a 24-hour shift environment and be part of the hospital’s
multidisciplinary committees. A valid driver licence will serve as an added
advantage.
DUTIES : Manage patient admin in 24 hours shift system, manage and sustain internal
control for collection of revenue, process debtors account, banking of revenue
collected, excising control over the maintenance and application of the filing
system for medical records, facilitate proper classification and re-classification
of patients, compile management, reports, manage archiving of patient
records, evaluation of staff in terms of the performance management system.
Prepare on / off duties for staff including ward clerk. Control overtime, stand-
by and Sunday/public holiday claims. Control queue Marshall, porter and
mortuary services. Handle enquiries relating to patient admin, assist with case
management and compile daily, weekly and monthly statistics and reports.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/203 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1235
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Ndindindi Clinic (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently
173
and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem
solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/204 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): WITH MIDWIFERY REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1251 (X14 POSTS)
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Witbank Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 qualification or equivalent plus Basic qualification
accredited with the SANC in terms of Government Notice R425 (i.e. Diploma /
Degree in General Nursing) or equivalent qualification that allows registration
with the SANC as Professional Nurse (2026). Ability to function independently
and to prioritize work. Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem
solving and decision-making skills.
DUTIES : Perform a clinical nursing practice in accordance with the scope of practice and
nursing standards as determined by the health facility. Promote quality of
nursing care as directed by the professional scope of practice and standards.
Participate in the implementation of the National Core Standards and Ideal
Hospital Realization Framework. Demonstrate effective communication with
patients, supervisors and other clinicians, including report writing when
required. Work as part of the multi-disciplinary team to ensure quality nursing
care. Work effectively, co-operatively amicably with persons of diverse
intellectual, cultural, racial or religious differences. Able to plan and organize
own work and that of support personnel to ensure proper nursing care. Display
a concern for patients, promoting and advocating proper treatment and care
including awareness and willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements
and expectations (Batho- Pele). Effectively manage resources allocated in your
unit.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/205 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 (PN-A2): GENERAL NURSING:
MALARIA CONTROL PROGRAMME REF NO: MPDOH/AUG/26/1252
Seven (7) Months Contract
SALARY : R337 359 – R397 392 per annum
CENTRE : Nkomazi Sub-district (Ehlanzeni District)
REQUIREMENTS : Senior Certificate / Grade 12 plus Basic qualification accredited with the SANC
in terms of Government Notice (I.E. Diploma/ Degree in General Nursing)
equivalent qualification that allows registration with the SANC as Professional
Nurse (2026). Grade 1: A minimum of 0-10 year’s appropriate / recognizable
experience in nursing after registration as a Professional Nurse with the SANC
in General Nursing. Ability to function independently and to prioritize work.
Leadership and sound interpersonal skills, problem solving and decision-
making skills. Knowledge of Public Service Policies, Acts and regulations,
Knowledge of SANC rules and regulations, Knowledge of the District Health
Care system and referral pathways. Good communication. Leadership,
174
interpersonal and decision-making and problem-solving skills. Knowledge of
Code of Conduct, Labour Relations, Conflict management and negotiation
skills, Ability to function well within a team, Skills in organizing, planning and
supervising, Knowledge of Batho Pele principles and patients’ rights charter.
Knowledge of Labor relations and handling grievances and disciplinary
procedures, Clear understanding of malaria management, Understanding
clinical, treatment guidelines and protocols. Good knowledge of Malaria
Elimination strategies. Valid code 10 (C1) drivers’ license (Please attach copy),
Experience in malaria control will be an added advantage.
DUTIES : Plan and manage malaria onsite malaria testing and treatment activities.
Conduct clinical assessment of signs and symptoms of Malaria. Screening and
Diagnoses. Notification of all positive cases. Administration of ACT to positive
clients. Conduct follow-up visits to treat patients. Manage and monitor Human
Resources activities within the malaria sector, Conduct Health Education and
training within the sector’s localities and facilities. Perform a clinical nursing
practice in accordance with the scope of practice and nursing standards.
Promote quality of nursing care as directed by the professional scope of
practice and standards. Work as part of the malaria multi-disciplinary team to
ensure good malaria management. Display a concern for patients, promoting
and advocating proper treatment and care including awareness and
willingness to respond to patient needs, requirements and expectations (Batho
Pele). Monitor & manage malaria data within scope of duties. Assist with data
quality checks.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
POST 28/206 : SESSIONAL MEDICAL OFFICER GRADE 1: (20 SESSIONS) REF NO:
MPDOH/AUG/26/1253
One (1) Year Contract
SALARY : R501.00 per hour, (Less than 5 years relevant experience)
R572.00 per hour, (At least 5 years, but less than 10 years, relevant
experience)
R662.00 per hour, (10 years and more relevant experience)
CENTRE : Waterval Boven Hospital (Nkangala District)
REQUIREMENTS : Appropriate qualifications that allows registration with the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a Medical Officer (2026). A valid work
permit will be required from non-South Africans. Sound knowledge of medical
ethics. Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the
respective medical discipline. Knowledge of current Health and Public Service
regulations and policies. Skills in terms of consultations, history taking,
examination, clinical assessment and clinical management. Knowledge, skills,
Training and Competences required. Sound knowledge of medical ethics.
Multidisciplinary management and teamwork and experience in the respective
medical discipline. Sound clinical knowledge. Competency and skills in general
clinical domains. The ability to work independently and under pressure and
beyond normal working hours and work with diverse team. Good
communication, leadership, interpersonal, and engage when necessary.
Knowledge of current health policies, legislation, programs and priorities within
the domain. Ability to teach and guide junior staff within the department.
Behavioural Attributes: Stress tolerance, to work within a team, self-confidence
and the ability to build and maintain good relationship.
DUTIES : To execute duties and functions with proficiency, to support the aims and
objectives of the institution that consistent with standards of patient care.
Accept responsibility for the management of patients admitted in a level 2/3
package of service facility. Assist in the preparation and implementation of
guidelines and protocols. Participate in academic and training programs. Assist
with clinical audits actively participate in continuous professional development.
Provide support to hospital management towards an efficient standard of
patient care and services maintained. Comply with the performance
Management and Development System (conducting quarterly reviews and final
assessment).
ENQUIRIES : Mr. Emmanuel Makokoropo Tel No: (013) 766 3384 / Ms. Gugu Nkosi Tel No:
(013) 766 3103 / Ms. Sebenzile Mthisi Tel No: (013) 766 3339, Mr. Mxolisi
175
Maseko Tel No: (013) 766 3351, Mr. Samson Nyoni Tel No: (013) 766 3087 and
IT related queries: Help desk Tel No: (013) 766 3018.
176
ANNEXURE W
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: NORTHERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
This Department is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, whose aim is to promote
representativity in all levels of all occupational categories in the Department
APPLICATIONS : All applications to be e-mailed to Mr T Khonkhobe, Human Resource
Management, Psychology Internship at the NCMHH in Kimberley. Please note
applications can be hand delivered to the Northern Cape Mental Health
Hospital, Portion 84, Number 80 on R31, Barkly Road, Kimberley, 8301 or
emailed to Mr T Khonkhobe, Head of Human Resources at
NCHEALTHNMH@NCPG.GOV.ZA Applicants must complete an application
register when an application is hand delivered.
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026
NOTE : Applications must be submitted on the new prescribed application form Z83
obtainable from any Public Service Department or any Public Service
Administration website. The fully completed and signed Z83 should be
accompanied by a detailed/comprehensive Curriculum Vitae, indicating
positions held, dates and key performance responsibilities. Only short-listed
candidates will be required to submit certified copies of their qualifications and
relevant documents on or before the day of the interview proceedings following
communication from the Human Resource Management Recruitment and
Selection Unit. Failure to submit the requested documents or information will
result in your application not being considered. The employment decision shall
be informed by the Employment Equity Plan of the Department. It is the
Department’s intention to promote equity (race, gender and disability) through
the filling of this post(s) with a candidate whose transfer / promotion /
appointment will promote representativity in line with the numerical targets as
contained in our Employment Equity Plan. If you have not been contacted
within eight (8) weeks after the closing date of this advertisement, please
accept that your application was unsuccessful. Suitable candidates will be
subjected to a personnel suitability check (criminal record, qualification
verification and employment verification). Where applicable, candidates will be
subjected to a skills/knowledge test. The Department reserves the right not to
make any appointment(s) to the above post. The successful candidate will be
expected to sign a performance agreement. The Department of Health is an
equal opportunity affirmative action employer. The request for certified
documents will be limited to shortlisted candidates. The Human Resource
Administration of the Department will inform shortlisted candidate for a post to
submit certified documents on or before the day of the interview. Should an
applicant wish to apply for more than one post, separate applications must be
submitted for all posts.
OTHER POST
POST 28/207 : CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY INTERNSHIP REF NO: NCDOH 78/2026 (X3
POSTS)
Contract Posts (01 January 2027 – 31 December 2027)
SALARY : R741 502 per annum
CENTRE : Northern Cape Mental Health Hospital (NCMHH) in Kimberley
REQUIREMENTS : Has met all the requirements set out by the HPCSA i.e. successfully completed
M1 as a student psychologist and is able to register as an intern psychologist
in 2027. Good work ethic, professionalism, interpersonal and communication
skills. Computer literacy. Have already completed a significant portion of the
thesis/dissertation component of the Master’s Degree - written confirmation
from research supervisor required. Honours Degree in Psychology; successful
completion of M1 theoretical component and thesis/dissertation component
well under way.
DUTIES : In and out - patient clinical assessment and intervention. Forensics services
30-day observation and state patient intervention. Conducting psychometric
assessments. General and clinical administrative tasks. Participate in
academic programmes - case presentations, journal club and ethics.
ENQUIRIES : Raghshanda Anthony Tel No: (053) 802 3618 / 053 802 3600
177
ANNEXURE X
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION: WESTERN CAPE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLNESS
In line with the Employment Equity Plan of the Department of Health it is our intention with this
advertisement to achieve equity in the workplace by promoting equal opportunities and fair treatment in
employment through the elimination of unfair discrimination.
APPLICATIONS : Applications are submitted online via www.westerncape.gov.za/health-jobs
(click “online applications”).
CLOSING DATE : 24 August 2026, 17:00 PM
NOTE : It will be expected of candidates to be available for selection interviews on a
date, time and place as determined by the Department. Kindly note that excess
personnel will receive preference. All shortlisted candidates, including the
SMS, shall undertake two pre-entry assessments. One will be a practical
exercise to determine a candidate’s suitability based on the post’s technical
and generic requirements and the other must be an integrity (ethical conduct)
assessment.
OTHER POSTS
POST 28/208 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: PACS/RISK (E-HEALTH CLINICAL SYSTEMS)
Directorate: Information Technology
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate three-year National Diploma
or Degree. Experience: Appropriate experience in clinical information systems,
health informatics, or information management. Appropriate experience
managing and leading clinician-facing digital health systems and programmes.
Proven experience in the implementation and operational management of
clinical systems and/or specialised clinical platforms. Appropriate experience
managing complex clinical workflows, interoperability, and healthcare
standards in a regulated environment. Proven experience in project and
programme management across the full system lifecycle, including
procurement, implementation, and operational support. Experience working
within the public health sector or similarly regulated healthcare environments.
Inherent requirements of the job: In-depth knowledge of clinical workflows,
particularly within diagnostic and specialist clinical services. Strong
understanding of digital imaging systems, PACS/RIS/VNA and related clinical
technologies. Knowledge of international healthcare interoperability standards.
Ability to work closely with clinicians, technical teams, vendors, and
governance structures. Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence and willingness to
travel. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong clinical systems and health
informatics knowledge. Project and programme management expertise in
clinical IT environments. Knowledge of IT, clinical and medico-legal
governance frameworks. Experience with SCM, contract management, and
SLA oversight. Excellent stakeholder engagement, communication, and
negotiation skills. Strong analytical, problem-solving, and decision-making
abilities. Ability to lead multidisciplinary teams in complex, high-risk
environments.
DUTIES : Lead and manage the eHealth Clinical Systems programme, including
clinician-facing digital health initiatives mandated by the executive. Oversee
the planning, implementation, and operational management of PACS, RIS,
VNA and other specialised clinical systems. Apply and enforce IT, clinical, and
medico-legal governance across all eHealth clinical projects and operations.
Manage procurement, contracts, and service level agreements in collaboration
with SCM, SITA, and strategic partners. Ensure compliance with national and
provincial policies, healthcare standards, and regulatory requirements. Provide
strategic input into the digital health strategy, clinical interoperability, analytics,
and innovation initiatives (including AI-enabled clinical solutions). Lead,
manage, and develop the eHealth Clinical Systems team, including
performance management, capacity building, and succession planning.
Manage budgets, financial controls, and reporting for the eHealth Clinical
Systems portfolio. Act as a key liaison between IT, clinical services, governance
178
structures, and external partners. Collaborate with the broader IT ecosystem
stakeholders and managers to implement departmental digital strategy.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Dlamini Tel No: (021) 483-8945
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 28/209 : DEPUTY DIRECTOR: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R932 292 per annum, (A portion of the package can be structured according
to the individual's personal needs.)
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Director: Metro Health Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An Appropriate 3-year national diploma/
degree. Experience: Appropriate managerial experience in stakeholder
engagement, partnership management or programme coordination within the
public sector. Appropriate experience working within a health service delivery
environment. Proven experience in engaging with external stakeholders,
including NPOs, donors, intergovernmental partners and service providers.
Appropriate experience supporting or coordinating governance structures,
committees and formal decision-making processes. Appropriate experience
working with digital or stakeholder facing platforms (e.g. NPOMS/HSPP or
similar). Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence.
Willingness to travel and work extended hours when required by service needs.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Strong strategic stakeholder management
and facilitation skills. Sound understanding of government governance and
decision-making processes. High level written and verbal communication skills,
including drafting of submissions, briefing notes and reports for senior
management. Ability to manage politically and operationally sensitive
engagements. Strong organisational, analytical and coordination skills. Digital
literacy, particularly in relation to stakeholder facing systems and data enabled
decision making. Exposure to system reform and provincialisation initiatives.
DUTIES : Lead and coordinate structured stakeholder engagement in support of Metro
Health Services strategic priorities and service delivery. Serve as the primary
interface between Metro Health Services and external stakeholders, including
NPOs, donors, intergovernmental partners, academic institutions and private
sector partners. Establish, coordinate and support governance structures,
including steering committees, technical working groups and task teams linked
to key programmes and platforms. Provide leadership for stakeholder facing
components of NPOMS/HSPP, including onboarding, communication, change
management and compliance support. Support provincialisation and system
reform initiatives, ensuring alignment between Metro, Rural and Provincial
stakeholders. Draft and coordinate strategic communication, submissions and
briefing material for EXCO, Service Connect and other governance forums.
Supervision and management of personnel that reports to this post. Identify
opportunities to improve stakeholder coordination through digital enablement,
innovation and improved processes. Maintain oversight of stakeholder related
risks, ensuring compliance with departmental policies, governance
requirements and audit standards. Provide regular progress reports to senior
management and relevant governance structures.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Janse van Rensburg Tel No: (021) 815-8699
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 28/210 : PHARMACIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (PRODUCTION)
SALARY : Grade 1: R882 816 per annum
Grade 2: R954 339 per annum
Grade 3: R1 041 402 per annum
CENTRE : Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, Rondebosch
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic qualification accredited with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) that allows registration with the SAPC
as a Pharmacist. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) as a pharmacist. Experience: Grade
1: None after registration as a pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA
qualified employees. 1-year relevant experience after registration as
pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience after registration as a pharmacist with the SAPC in respect of SA
179
qualified employees. 6-years relevant experience after registration as
pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional council in respect of
foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to perform Community
service as required in South Africa. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’
appropriate experience after registration as a pharmacist with the SAPC in
respect of SA qualified employees. 14-years relevant experience after
registration as pharmacist with a recognized foreign Health Professional
council in respect of foreign qualified employees, of whom it is not required to
perform Community service as required in South Africa. Inherent requirements
of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s license. Willingness to perform regular
after-hours duties. Willingness to perform standby duties and call-out duties
when required to do so. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy
(MS Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work accurately
under pressure and maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work
in a multi-disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and communication
skills. Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies,
Medicines Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public Finance
Management Act. Appropriate clinical and pharmaceutical knowledge.
Innovative analytical thinking and the ability to initiate, co-ordinate, manage
and sustain systems. Ability to manage and supervise staff in the absence of
the manager and to conduct all administrative functions required.
DUTIES : Pharmaceutical service delivery includes services within the boundaries of
RWMCH and improving continuity of care within the Ecosystem it serves.
Effective medicine supply management (Procurement, storage, control and
distribution of pharmaceuticals) including cold chain management in all areas
where medications are kept. Quality assurance and clinical governance
including rational medicine use. Assist with corporate governance functions
including financial control, implementation and evaluation of budgetary control
measures, human resource management and development and information
management. Ensure compliance with policy and legislative requirements and
Good Pharmacy Practice Guidelines. Assist with the implementation and
management of Antimicrobial Stewardship (AMS).
ENQUIRIES : Mr E Williams Tel No: (021) 658-5031
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 28/211 : ASSISTANT MANAGER NURSING: (HEAD OF NURSING)
West Coast District
SALARY : R720 819 per annum
CENTRE : Vredendal Hospital, Matzikama Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse OR A
3 year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) as a General Nurse. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse or General Nurse.
Experience: A minimum of 8 years appropriate/recognisable experience in
nursing after registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General
Nursing. At least 3 years of the period referred to above must be
appropriate/recognisable experience at management level. Inherent
requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to
travel and to attend to community needs after hours. Ability to work in a high
stress environment. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to function/make
decisions independently and as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Experience in
change management, people management, conflict management, problem
solving, negotiation, and strategic planning. Good communication,
interpersonal relationships, exceptional leadership and conflict resolution skills.
Expertise in quality improvement, infection prevention and control strategies
and in-depth knowledge and application of Ideal Hospital. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint & Outlook). Extensive knowledge and
understanding of the District Health System and the implementation thereof,
relevant nursing legislation, policies and protocols of the Department of Health,
Western Cape as well as experience in office administration, human resource
management, financial management, supply chain and procurement
processes.
180
DUTIES : Provide leadership and co-ordinate the nursing service within designated
levels of care. Manage and monitor the cost-effective utilisation of human,
financial and physical resources Manage nursing research, nursing practice
development and training programmes. Clinical governance and realisation of
strategic goals and objectives of the Nursing Division. Manage nursing quality
assurance Programme and develop nursing policies.
ENQUIRIES : Dr ECT Ockhuis Tel No: (027) 213-2039
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a practical/competency test.
POST 28/212 : OPERATIONAL MANAGER NURSING GRADE 1 (GENERAL NURSING)
Garden Route District
SALARY : R571 161 per annum, (Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 8% of your
annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Ladysmith Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the South
African Nursing Council as a Professional Nurse. Experience: A minimum of 7
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration with
SANC as Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirement of the
job: A valid (Code B/EB) driver’s licence. Willingness to perform overtime, after-
hours, weekends, standby duties, and assist with shift work when needed.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to promote quality patient care
through the setting, implementation and monitoring of standards. Knowledge
and understanding of Nursing legislation, related legal ethical nursing practices
and framework, as well as labour legislation and relevant public sector policies,
guidelines and protocols. Ability to function under pressure, independently and
as well as part of a multi-disciplinary team. Good organisational, interpersonal,
leadership, decision making, and conflict resolution skills. Basic computer
literacy.
DUTIES : Manage the clinical services and rostering of staff. Responsible for planning,
managing, coordinating and maintaining an optimal quality Nursing Service as
an Operational Manager in a hospital setting. Participative management and
utilization of Human Resources, to fulfil operational and developmental
functions in the area. Manage and monitor the Financial Resources,
consumables and equipment of the clinical area. Initiate and participate in
training, development and research within the nursing department. Deliver a
support service to the Nursing Service Department and the institution. Maintain
ethical standards and promote professional growth and self-development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Laubscher Tel No: (028) 551-1010
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
POST 28/213 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 2 (SPECIALTY: PSYCHIATRY)
SALARY : Grade 1: R495 423 per annum
Grade 2: R607 350 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: R425 qualification (i.e. diploma/degree in
nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880 plus R254) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. A post-basic nursing qualification with a duration of at least 1 year
accredited with the SANC in Advanced Psychiatric Nursing Science (R212).
OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or equivalent qualification
(R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows registration with the South
African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse. A post graduate
diploma (R635) accredited with the SANC in Mental Health Nursing.
Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: A Minimum of 4 years
appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 2: A minimum of 14 years
181
appropriate/ recognisable nursing experience after registration with the SANC
as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. At least 10 years of the period
referred to above must be appropriate/recognizable experience after obtaining
the one-year post-basic qualification (R212) or a post graduate diploma (R635)
in the relevant specialty. Inherent requirements of the job: To work shifts and
after-hours including weekends, public holidays and night duty. To rotate to
other departments within the psychiatry unit. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Sound knowledge and understanding of nursing and health service related
acts, legislation, policies and practices. Problem solving, report writing, liaison
and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS Word, Excel, Outlook and use
of Internet. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment.
DUTIES : Provide an optimal, holistic, specialised Nursing Care within set standards and
within a professional, legal framework as a Professional Nurse in Mental Health
wards/units. Maintain a constructive working relationship with nursing and
other stakeholders. Utilise human, material and physical resources efficiently
and effectively. Participate in research and training and development of
community, staff and students to achieve optimal health care and rehabilitation
of Mental Health patients. Deliver an effective outreach service. Assist with
administrative duties, e.g., data collation and reporting.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Meiring Tel No: (021) 404-3172
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Short-listed
candidates may be subjected to a compulsory competency test. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in the post-
basic qualification or post-graduate qualification in the relevant specialty.
POST 28/214 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: CHANGE MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: People Strategy
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National Diploma/B-
Degree (NQF 6 or higher) in Human Resource Management, Organisational
Development, Industrial Psychology or a related field. A recognised Change
Management accreditation or certification (e.g. Prosci or similar) will be
advantageous. Experience: Appropriate experience in change management,
organisational development or a related environment. Inherent requirement of
the job: Valid Code 8 (B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Knowledge of change management principles, models and methodologies.
Knowledge of organisational culture and leadership theory and models. Good
verbal and written communication skills, including facilitation and report writing.
Diagnostic and analytical skills, including the ability to interpret organisational
data and identify emerging themes. Good interpersonal, stakeholder
engagement and influencing skills. Sound practical computer skills in MS Office
(Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Outlook and Teams. Preparedness to work
overtime, travel and stay overnight when required.
DUTIES : Ensure change management activities align with departmental strategies,
DPSA frameworks and policies through research, analysis, interpretation and
advisory support, and contribute to the translation of these frameworks into
practical implementation approaches. Facilitation and implementation of
Change Interventions and initiatives through stakeholder engagement,
coaching and structured facilitation to drive adoption. Co-ordinate and execute
organisational surveys to track organisational transformation change and
participate in procurement processes. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) on change management activities and ensure accurate and
consolidated information for departmental decision making. Operational
planning, People Management and Financial Management responsibilities i.e.
day-to-day supervision of staff, workflow and operations management,
procurement, contract and asset management, compliance monitoring with
departmental policies.
ENQUIRIES : Ms F Heunis Tel No: (021) 483-6531
182
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a practical test.
POST 28/215 : ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: EXPENDITURE ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMENT
REPORTING
Directorate Management Accounting
Sub-Directorate: Strategic Budget Analysis
SALARY : R487 197 per annum
CENTRE : Head Office, Cape Town, stationed at Bellville Health Park in Bellville
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An appropriate 3-year National
Diploma/Degree (e.g. IT, Data Science, Finance, Accounting, or others subject
with numerical orientation) (or equivalent). Experience: Appropriate experience
in financial data analysis, management accounting, financial administration,
budgeting, costing or financial reporting. Appropriate experience in the
advanced use of Microsoft Excel. Appropriate experience in the use of
database management and analytics tools such as Microsoft Azure, SQL
Server, Power Query and VBA programming. Inherent requirements of the job:
Valid Code B/EB driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills); Advanced
proficiency in Microsoft Excel. Demonstrated ability to analyse large, complex
datasets, perform data cleaning and transformation, and generate actionable
insights to support decision-making. Knowledge of management accounting,
budgeting, financial modelling, data analytics and business intelligence, with
the ability to analyse and interpret complex financial and operational
information. Advanced computer literacy, including proficiency in Microsoft
Excel (advanced functions, Power Query and/or Power Pivot), Microsoft
Access, SQL Server, Power BI and other data analytics and reporting tools.
Strong analytical, problem-solving and critical thinking skills, with the ability to
develop practical, evidence-based solutions. Proven people management,
coaching and staff development skills. Excellent interpersonal, communication,
stakeholder engagement and conflict resolution skills, with the ability to work
collaboratively across all organisational levels and independently where
required.
DUTIES : Lead financial modelling and database management activities that support
strategic planning, budgeting and decision-making. Analyse and interpret
complex financial and non-financial information, providing evidence-based
insights and recommendations to management. Oversee data governance,
including data extraction, validation and quality assurance, to ensure the
integrity and quality of financial and management information. Continuously
review the effectiveness of existing databases and financial reporting models
and develop automated reporting solutions. Monitor expenditure, cash flow and
budget performance through forecasting and variance analysis to promote
sound financial management. Prepare cost estimates, financial assessments
and supporting analyses to inform planning, budgeting and resource allocation.
Build organisational analytical capability by providing technical guidance and
training to Sectors and Institutions on forecasting methodologies, financial
reporting and the interpretation of management information. Manage and
develop staff to ensure the effective delivery of financial analytical services.
ENQUIRIES : Ms W Hanekom Tel No: (021) 815-8608
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. (click “online
applications”).
POST 28/216 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN SUPERVISOR: CLINICAL ENGINEERING (X-
RAY/ IMAGING UNIT)
SALARY : R413 001 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: A National Diploma, (T, S or N Stream in
Light Current Electrical- Engineering Field) or a B-tech degree in Electronic or
Mechanical engineering. Experience: Appropriate proven previous repair and
maintenance knowledge and experience in Medical Imaging Equipment
(including X-rays). Appropriate experience in the installation of medical X-ray
equipment and QA assessment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid Code B
(Code 08) driver's license. Perform standby and after hour call-out duties.
Perform overtime functions when required. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Well-developed electronic, electrical and mechanical technical service and
repair skills and knowledge. Ability to carry out basic mechanical repairs.
183
Possess accurate technical ability and insight in order to identify and solve
technical problems. Ability to perform fault finding down to component level by
means of circuit diagrams and test gear. Ability to make use of various basic
and sophisticated hand tools, power tools, machinery and test equipment to
carry out functions. Computer literate (MS -Word, -Excel and -Access). -Good
communication skills (written and verbal). Ability to perform administrative
functions. Ability to work as a team member and on occasions on own initiative
with the minimum supervision. Ability to organize and plan tasks and functions.
Ability to provide on the job training and monitoring of junior technicians. Ability
to perform supervisory functions. Sound knowledge of medical Imaging
equipment. Ability to draft specifications of medical equipment. Have first-hand
installation experience. Ability to plan and control budgets.
DUTIES : Perform Electro-Mechanical repairs, routine maintenance, inspections, quality
assurance testing and evaluation of relevant Medical equipment belonging to
Tygerberg Hospital and any institutions under its control. Perform acceptance
inspection and testing for new or donated equipment. Inform on serviceability
of equipment. Ensuring that the equipment meets the legal and safety
requirements of the manufacturers, users, and statutory bodies. Evaluate,
investigate, monitor and advise on suitability of equipment, costs of repairs and
running cost of equipment. -Perform incident investigations and inform
supervisor of any hazards and/or recall and act on notifications. Maintain a
detailed and accurate administrative system for example service history,
expenditure, and tracking inventory. Responsible for the day to day functioning
of the human and other resources under the post's control for example work
distribution, prioritizing work and other supervisory functions. Training and
monitoring of junior technical staff. Specification drafting. Provide detailed
preventative maintenance schedules. Be on call for after hour services and
repairs. Administrative functions as required by the Clinical Engineering
Department. Ensuring compliance of the OHS Act of 1993. Liaison with hospital
personnel and private sector representatives. Responsible to the Unit Manager
of the workshop.
ENQUIRIES : Ms M Rossouw Tel No: (021) 938-4634
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment. A full detailed job
description is available on request. Orientation to the functioning of the
Electronic Unit and Clinical Engineering Department will be provided to the
successful candidate.
POST 28/217 : INDUSTRIAL TECHNICIAN (PRODUCTION): ELECTRONICS
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Clinical Engineering Goodwood, Electronics section
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: National Diploma in Electrical (LC)
Engineering (T; S or N stream), or National Diploma in Mechatronics, or
registration as an Engineering Technician in terms of the Engineering
Profession of South Africa Act (Act 46 of 2000). Experience: Appropriate
experience after qualification with repairs, maintenance and installation of
electronic or related medical equipment. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid
driver’s licence (Code B/EB) and willing to travel throughout the Western Cape.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Proven knowledge of health technology
principles. Ability to compile technical specifications for medical equipment.
Excellent ability to do fault finding on equipment. Good written and verbal skills.
Proven experience computer literacy (i.e. MS Word, Excel). Product specific
technical training Advanced knowledge of managing, planning and organizing
maintenance schedules.
DUTIES : Carry out advanced maintenance, repairs, calibration, modifications and
installations of medical (electronic) equipment. Train junior technicians and
users on equipment. Ensuring that the equipment meets legal and safety
requirements of the manufacturers and statutory bodies. Perform all
administrative functions as required by the Clinical Engineering Department,
managers and health Technology prescripts while ensuring compliance with
the Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1993. Liaison with hospital and
private sector staff while reporting to the manager of the relevant workshop.
Manage the workshop in the absence of supervisor in charge of relevant
workshop and be willing to work within all Clinical Engineering disciplines.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Padayachee Tel No: (021) 590-5008
184
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a competency test on day of interview and will
also need to sign a form allowing background, criminal, qualification, credit and
driver's license verification.
POST 28/218 : PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF DIRECTOR
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R338 106 per annum
CENTRE : Office of the Chief Director (Mossel Bay)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: An accredited secretarial diploma and/or
administrative qualification on the level of NQF level 5 (a certificate of
completion should be provided). Qualification on a higher level may also be
accepted on condition that the subjects of the qualification align to the functions
of the job. Experience: Appropriate experience in rendering secretarial/
administrative support services to management/ senior management. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid SA driver’s licence (Code B/EB). Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy, with knowledge in the MS Office Suite
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Teams, Outlook) and AI Applications. Good
interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills (including telephone and
email etiquette). High-level reliability and ability to function in a team and or
independently. Ability to analyse information and draft reports. Self-
Management and motivation, including good grooming and presentation.
Sound organisational skills. Maintain a high level of professionalism and
confidentiality. The ability or experience to effectively manage the diary and
related support functions remotely when required.
DUTIES : Provide executive secretarial support in-person or remotely to the Chief
Director (i.e diary management, administrative support and records
management). Render Administrative support services to the Chief Director,
including procurement of goods and services. Support the Chief Director with
the Administration of the budget in the office of the Chief Director. Provide
support to the Chief Director regarding meetings, including minute taking and
presentations. Support the Chief Director with the administration of all People
Management/Human Resource aspects. Render an administrative service to
staff within the office of the Chief Director Studies the relevant Public Service
and departmental prescripts/ policies and other documents and ensure that the
application thereof is understood properly.
ENQUIRIES : Ms A Loliwe Tel No: (044) 695-0047
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 28/219 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING: PHC) (X2
POSTS)
Cape Winelands Health District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
(Plus an 8% rural allowance of your annual basic salary)
CENTRE : Skurweberg Mobile and Bella Vista Clinic, Witzenberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.,
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse OR a 4-year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as
a Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years of appropriate/recognisable nursing experience after registration with the
SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of 20
years of appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after registration with
the SANC as a Professional Nurse in General Nursing. Inherent requirements
of the job: Prepared to work at different facilities within the Sub District,
inclusive of Mobile facilities, when needed within the community (COPC
concept). Valid (code B/EB) driver’s licence. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Ability to effectively communicate (verbally and in writing). Knowledge and
insight of relevant legislation and policy related to nursing within the public
sector. Basic computer literacy (MS Word, Excel, and Outlook) to be able to
185
communicate, capture patient information, check results, capture data, and
track referrals on the different electronic systems. Ability to promote quality
patient care through the implementation of protocols, guidelines, and
standards.
DUTIES : Provision of quality basic nursing patient centred care in a Clinic setting.
Provision of optimal, holistic clinical and elementary nursing care with set
standards and within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilisation of
human and financial resources, Information management and support
services. Improving quality of health services. Community participation,
outreach and support. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development.
ENQUIRIES : Ms N Tyesi Tel No: (023) 316-9600
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 28/220 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL NURSING:
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Valkenberg Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R880) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with
the SANC as Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A
minimum of 10 years’ appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade
3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognizable experience in nursing after
registration as Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to perform shiftwork, rotation in night duty
and over weekends/public holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
interpersonal, planning, and organisational skills. Computer literacy (MS Word,
Excel & Outlook). Knowledge of the Mental Health Care Act, Child Care Act,
Nursing Act and other relevant legislation.
DUTIES : Provision of optimal, holistic nursing care to mental users with set standards
within a professional/legal framework. Effective utilization of resources.
Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-development.
Provision of Support to Nursing Services. Participation in-training and
research.
ENQUIRIES : Ms L Marepula Tel No: (021) 440-3107
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 28/221 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: GENERAL
INPATIENT)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
186
(Plus non pensionable rural allowance of 8% of your annual basic salary).
CENTRE : Riversdale Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to work shifts, night duty, overtime, public holidays and
weekends. Willingness to assists at other wards in the hospital and at the
clinics in the Sub-district when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills):
Basic Computer literacy (MS Office). Ability to function independently, as well
as in a multi-disciplinary team to ensure good patient care. Excellent
communication skills (both written and verbal).
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of the nursing plan
(clinical practice or patient care). Implement standards, practices, criteria, and
indicators for quality nursing (quality of practice) Practice nursing and health
care in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to nursing and health
care. Maintain constructive working relationship with nursing and other
stakeholders. Utilize human, material, and physical resources efficiently and
effectively.
ENQUIRIES : Mr NL Mphato Tel No: (028) 713-8643
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 28/222 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: OPD, SPINAL ICU,
GENERAL MEDICINE) (X4 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
diploma/degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Or A 4 year bachelor’s degree in nursing (R174) that allows registration
with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional Nurse or A 3
year Diploma in Nursing (R171) that allows registration with the South African
Nursing Council (SANC) AS A General Nurse. Registration with a professional
council: Registration with the SANC as Professional Nurse or General Nurse.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable
experience in nursing after registration as Professional Nurse. Inherent
requirements of the job: Work Shifts Including Weekends, Public Holidays and
Night Duty. Ability to lift and turn patients, stand for long hours and lift heavy
equipment. Rotate to other departments, excluding Maternity department.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Knowledge of Infection Prevention Control,
control measures and practices. Knowledge of Nursing Practices. Problem
solving, report writing, liaison and facilitation skills. Basic computer skills in MS
Word, Excel, Outlook and use of Internet. Ability to communicate effectively
(verbal and written).
187
DUTIES : Provision of quality nursing care within set standards. Effective human
resource utilization and development. Effective Monitoring of Financial
Resources. Initiate and participate in research and data collection.
ENQUIRIES : Ms T Wulff Tel No: (021) 404-2109
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a compulsory competency test. “Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview.” This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for a change in registration status)”.
POST 28/223 : PROFESSIONAL NURSE GRADE 1 TO 3 (GENERAL: PRIMARY HEALTH
CARE)
Garden Route District
SALARY : Grade 1: R337 359 per annum
Grade 2: R411 978 per annum
Grade 3: R495 423 per annum
CENTRE : HIV/AIDS George Sub-district (Stationed at Rosemoor CC)
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Basic R425 qualification (i.e.
Diploma/Degree in nursing) or equivalent qualification (R683 plus R254) that
allows registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a
Professional Nurse. OR A 4 year Bachelor Degree in Nursing (R174) or
equivalent qualification (R683 plus R1497 or R171 plus R1497) that allows
registration with the South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Professional
Nurse. Registration with a professional council: Registration with SANC as a
Professional Nurse. Experience: Grade 1: None Grade 2: A minimum of 10
years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Grade 3: A minimum of
20 years appropriate/recognisable experience in nursing after registration as
Professional Nurse with the SANC in General Nursing. Inherent requirement
of the job: Willingness to assist/relieve at other Primary Health Care facilities
(e.g. Community Day Centres, Clinics, Satellite Clinics, Mobile Clinics).
Willingness to work shifts and assist in the hospital when needed. Willingness
to work overtime when needed. Valid driver’s license. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Planning and organisational Skills. Self-discipline and
motivation. The ability to function independently under pressure. Good
communication skills.
DUTIES : Provide direction and supervision for the implementation of quality
comprehensive nursing care within the Primary Health Care context. Maintain
ethical practise within legal and regulatory frameworks. Maintain a constructive
working relationship with all relevant stakeholders of the Primary Health Care
Team. Utilize human, material and physical resources efficiently and effectively.
Participate in training programmes and research activities. Maintain workplace
disciplinary of sub-ordinates.
ENQUIRIES : Ms MFJ Marthinus Tel No: (044) 814 1100
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 28/224 : PHARMACIST ASSISTANT (POST BASIC) GRADE 1 TO 3
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R275 340 per annum
Grade 2: R318 666 per annum
Grade 3: R343 761 per annum
CENTRE : Vredenburg Hospital, Saldanha Bay Sub-district
188
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: As required by the training facility and the
South African Pharmacy Council (SAPC) plus Post-Basic Pharmacist Assistant
qualification that allows registration with SAPC as a Pharmacist Assistant
(Post-Basic) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post-Basic) Institutional. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SAPC as a Pharmacist
Assistant (Post Basic) (Institutional) or Pharmacist Assistant (Post Basic).
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration as Pharmacist’s Assistant (Post
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Grade 3: A minimum of 13 years’ appropriate experience
as Pharmacist Assistant after registration as a Pharmacist Assistant (Post-
Basic) with the SAPC. Inherent requirements of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
driver’s license. Willingness to perform regular after hour duties. Willingness to
perform after hours & relief duties within the ecosystem of Saldanha Sub
District. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Office: Word,
Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook). Ability to work accurately under pressure and
maintain a high standard of professionalism. Ability to work in a multi-
disciplinary team with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
Appropriate knowledge of National and Provincial Health Policies, Medicines
Act 101of 1965, the Pharmacy Act 53 of 1974 and Public Finance Management
Act. Appropriate clinical and pharmaceutical knowledge. Knowledge with
JAC/WellSky dispensing system. Time management, strategic planning,
prioritizing of tasks.
DUTIES : Effective control of pharmaceutical stock. Ensure effective Pharmaceutical
Care (Dispensing) including the Chronic Dispensing Unit within the Sub
District. Assist with collection of Pharmacy Data and recordkeeping. Promote
and assist with optimal Pharmaceutical Advisory Service with the relevant
multi-disciplinary teams. Ensure effective Quality of Health Service. Provide
support to supervisor and perform relief duties when required in clinics within
the Sub District.
ENQUIRIES : Ms. E Julius Tel No: (022) 709-7237
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements, may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 28/225 : ARTISAN PRODUCTION GRADE A TO C (ELECTRICAL) (X2 POSTS)
SALARY : Grade A: R253 341 per annum
Grade B: R297 249 per annum
Grade C: R345 342 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate Trade Test Certificate in
Electrical field. Experience: Grade A: No experience required. Grade B: At
least 18 years appropriate/recognisable experience in an area after obtaining
the relevant Trade Test Certificate. Grade C: At least 34 years
appropriate/recognisable experience in an area after obtaining the relevant
Trade Test Certificate. Inherent requirement of the job: Valid (Code B/EB)
drivers’ licence and willingness to travel. Willingness to be available after hours
and perform standby duties. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to do
fault finding and repairs to electrical equipment and installations. Knowledge of
the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 and its relevant regulations.
DUTIES : General maintenance and repair of electrical items such as lights, plugs,
distribution boards, circuit breakers, motors and industrial equipment. Manage
the control of tools, equipment and stock. Ability to maintain minor mechanical
and electrical installation’s, fault finding, as well as all General Maintenance
work. Perform new installation work or expand existing electrical services.
Render assistance to the Artisan foreman and Chief artisan and effective
supervision and training of subordinates. The ability to perform basic duties
and record-keeping of logbooks. Maintenance on UPS systems and
Generators. Assist Artisan foreman and Chief Artisan in compiling of
189
specifications for electrical projects and project coordination. General
substation maintenance.
ENQUIRIES : Mr W Krüger Tel No: (021) 938-4240
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 28/226 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: HRM (PEOPLE MANAGEMENT)
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Western Cape College of Nursing, Central Administration office, Stikland
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate People Management experience. Appropriate
PERSAL experience and Recruitment and Selection. Inherent requirement of
the job: Prepared to work overtime when required. Candidate must have a valid
Driver’s License. The incumbent will be expected to support multiple campuses
with HR processes, when operational needs dictate. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Good interpersonal, decision making and problem-solving
skills. Good communication skills. Ability to work in a team as well as
independently. Ability to work under pressure.
DUTIES : Perform all administrative duties pertaining to the personnel administration
section e.g. appointments, service terminations, transfers, pension
administration, salary administration, leave, housing, injury on duty, debt
management and verification of documents. Responsible for capturing
transactions on PERSAL and audit personnel- and leave records. Handle all
personnel enquiries and correspondence (written and verbal) and file
personnel data, policies, regulations and circulars. Maintain registers, i.e.
PILIR, RWOPS, appointment and service terminations. Recruitment and
selection.
ENQUIRIES : Mr DP Bending Tel No: (021) 831-5829
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical and competency test as part of the
interview process.
POST 28/227 : PRINCIPAL LINEN SUPERVISOR
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Groote Schuur Hospital, Observatory
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior certificate or equivalent. Experience:
Appropriate Experience in Hospital Linen Bank and Appropriate Supervisory
Experience. Inherent requirements of the job: Perform relief duties within the
hospital linen management setup. Willingness to work overtime during
weekends and Public Holidays. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Ability to
achieve good interpersonal relations with staff and the service provider. Good
numerical skills. Knowledge and ability to interpret the Western Cape
Department of Health and Wellness Hospital Linen Management Policy.
DUTIES : Effective communication and liaising with regarding operational aspects of the
outsources laundering and linen management services. Monitor and assist with
linen operational processes of the outsourced contractual obligations of the
outsourced linen and laundry contractor. Effective quality linen control in terms
of hospital end-users as supplied by the contractor. Effective supervision of the
Linen Management component and supervision of Linen Supervisors.
ENQUIRIES : Ms.P Gudwana Tel No: (021) 404-5315
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 28/228 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: ADMISSIONS
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : New Somerset Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate experience in patient administration in a hospital
environment. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work 12-hour
shifts, night duty, weekends and public holidays. Expected to rotate within the
admissions components, based on operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy (MS Word and Excel). Appropriate
Clinicom experience.
190
DUTIES : Render an effective and efficient Patient Administration service at the
Reception Point according to DOH policy and ensure accurate assessment of
patients to the means test and billing of patient accounts. Assess patients and
registering of new patients with complete relevant Clinicom system
transactions, Hospital Memorandum 18 and UPFS manual. Responsible for
sound cash management, that of state custody and record keeping of state
monies. Handle telephonic and personal enquiries regarding patients Effective
co-operation and support to supervisor, colleagues and members of the
Management team and Filling, Drawing of folders and any ad-hoc duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms R Abrahams Tel No: (021) 402-6340
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post.
POST 28/229 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: WARDS
Central Karoo District
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Beaufort West Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent).
Experience: Appropriate patient administration experience in a health
environment. Appropriate experience in Clinicom. Inherent requirement of the
job: Willingness to work overtime. The incumbent is expected to assist/relieve
at other wards based on operational requirements. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer skills in MS Office. Good interpersonal and
communication skills, ability to work independently, and as part of a team.
Ability to maintain confidentiality and problem-solving and conflict management
with good organizational skills.
DUTIES : Provide support/relief to staff and supervisors as operationally required
regarding waiting list and patient administration. Perform Patient administrative
functions within the Ward which include admissions, transfers, discharge of
patients, transport bookings, patient queries, reviewing of patient information.
Perform daily ward rounds and ensure all patient movements are captured on
Clinicom. Providing effective general administrative support to the Ward and
Hospital including folder administration and ad hoc ward duties. Ensuring
resources within the ward are managed effectively, replenishment of stock and
managing stock. Performing data collection and compilation of duties for the
wards monthly.
ENQUIRIES : Mr JCB Kiewiet Tel No: (023) 414-8200
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be required to undergo a practical assessment.
POST 28/230 : ADMINISTRATION CLERK: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Services Support
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : Finance and Supply Chain Management
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Senior Certificate (or equivalent) with
Mathematics and/or Accountancy as passed subject and/or Senior Certificate
(or equivalent) with experience/competencies that focuses on the Key
Performance Areas (KRA’s) of the post. Experience: Appropriate experience.
Inherent requirement of the job: Valid driver’s licence. Willingness to travel.
Competencies (knowledge/skills): Computer literate in Microsoft Office.
Knowledge of Supply Chain Management processes, PFMA and AOS.
Knowledge of LOGIS and EPS. Ability to effectively communicate (verbal &
written).
DUTIES : Demand and acquisition management of goods and services. Assist with the
preparation of inputs for the annual financial statements (AFS) and ensuring
audit compliance. Advertising requests on the EPS and conducting SCM
evaluations according to SCM prescripts. Prepare batches, draft minutes for
QC and vetting committee. Placing of orders with suppliers and maintaining
accurate filing systems. Address supplier and user queries. Monthly reporting.
Perform assisting and relief duties within SCM component.
ENQUIRIES : Mr M Petersen Tel No: (021) 815- 8656
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates will
be subjected to a written/practical and oral assessment.
191
POST 28/231 : STERILIZATION OPERATOR SUPERVISOR (CSSD)
Chief Directorate: Rural Health Services
SALARY : R237 453 per annum
CENTRE : George Regional Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC/Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience as a CSSD
operator. Inherent requirement of the job: Be willing to work overtime, which
may include weekends. The ability to handle heavy equipment and perform
heavy duty functions, e.g. transport of heavy stock trolleys. The ability to report
defects (test data), to do elementary stock control. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate knowledge, skills and competencies required to
supervise and manage staff effectively, including leadership, planning,
communication and interpersonal skills. Must have numeracy skills and should
be able to think analytically. Be able to supervise and be assertive. Sound
knowledge of steam sterilisation practices and decontamination processes.
Strong leadership, strategic, interpersonal, negotiation, facilitation, counselling,
operational contingency planning, and organisational skills. Computer literacy
(MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint). Independent effective decision making and
problem-solving skills within the limits of the Public Sector policy framework.
DUTIES : Supervise service in terms of control, cleaning, sterilizing, packing, and
collecting of instruments and distribution of sterile instruments. Ensure
continues monitoring and evaluation of staff reporting to you. Supervise and
implement the cleaning control and testing of washing machines, autoclaves
and other equipment in the department. Optimal support to operational
manager and colleagues. Ensure maintenance of standards for quality and
safety. -Manage financial, physical and human resources. Manage human
resources. Maintain growth and development of self and others. Display of core
values of the Department of Health WCG in the execution of duties.
ENQUIRIES : Ms LK De Goede Tel No: (044) 802-4352
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates may be subjected to a practical test.
POST 28/232 : EMERGENCY CARE OFFICER GRADE 1 AND 3 (VARIOUS INSTITUTIONS)
(X7 POSTS)
Chief Directorate: Emergency and Clinical Support Service
SALARY : Grade 1: R194 988 per annum
Grade 3: R226 701 per annum
CENTRE : Metropole District
Cape Winelands District
Central Karoo District
Garden Route District
Overberg District
West Coast District
Emergency Medical Services
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Grade 3: Successful completion of the
Intermediate Life Support (ILS) that allows registration with the HPCSA as
Ambulance Emergency Assistant (AEA). Grade 1: Successful completion of
an appropriate Basic Life Support (BLS) course that allows registration with the
HPCSA as Basic Ambulance Assistant (BAA). Registration with a professional
council: Grade 1: Registration with the Health Professions Council of South
Africa as an BAA. Grade 3: Registration with the Health Professions Council
of South Africa as an AEA. Experience: None after registration with the Health
Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a BAA or AEA. Inherent
requirement of the job: Valid code C1 driver’s license. -Valid professional
driver’s permit (PrDP). Physical and mental fitness. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Excellent knowledge of all levels of emergency care
protocols. -Good communication and interpersonal skills.
DUTIES : Provide quality and efficient roadside to bedside definitive emergency care
within defined emergency time frames within and across geographic and
clinical service platforms. Make use of all communication tools as provided by
the Employer to facilitate safe communication in relation to patient care
protocols. Effectively maintaining Admin Function: complete manual and
electronic patient care reports and trip authority log sheets. Maintenance of
Emergency Vehicles and Equipment. Ensure effective communication with
192
regards to patients, colleagues, other services and members of the Public.
Provide effective support to the supervisor and participate in own wellbeing.
ENQUIRIES : EMS Southern District Office – Mr M Mdzeke Tel No: (021) 374-2316 / Mr K
Ndiki Tel No: (021) 374-2316/7
EMS Eastern District Office – Mr M Petersen Tel No: (0210 361-6568 / Ms N
Mlatsha Tel No: (021) 816-8807
EMS West Coast District Office – Mr E Pedro Tel No: (022) 433-8853 / Ms S
Andrew Tel No: (022) 433-8853
EMS Cape Winelands District Office - Mr I Naidoo Tel No: (023) 346-6000 / Ms
A Botha Tel No: (023) 346-6022
EMS Overberg District Office – Ms Y Avontuur Tel No: (028) 312-3219/ Mr M
Jacobs Tel No: (028) 284-9100;
EMS Garden Route District Office - Mr J Jansen Tel No: (044) 802-2517 / Ms
L Jacobs Tel No: (044) 802-2521; EMS Central Karoo District Office – Mr J
Jansen Tel No: (023) 449-8202 / Ms L Fortuin Tel No: (023) 449-8209
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status. Shortlisted candidates will be expected
to undergo a practical assessment.
POST 28/233 : NURSING ASSISTANT GRADE 1 TO 3 (X3 POSTS)
West Coast District
SALARY : Grade 1: R181 230 per annum
Grade 2: R211 401 per annum
Grade 3: R249 141 per annum
CENTRE : Clanwilliam Hospital, Cederberg Sub-district
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Qualification that allows registration with
South African Nursing Council (SANC) as a Nursing Assistant. Registration
with a professional council: Registration with the SANC as a Nursing Assistant.
Experience: Grade 1: None. Grade 2: A minimum of 10 years
appropriate/recognisable experience after registration with the SANC as
Nursing Assistant. Grade 3: A minimum of 20 years appropriate/recognisable
experience after registration with the SANC as Nursing Assistant. Inherent
requirements of the job: Willingness to rotate to other wards in the facility. Must
be prepared to work shifts, weekends, and public holidays. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Computer literacy in MS Word, Excel & PowerPoint and
knowledge of recordkeeping procedures. Good communication and
interpersonal skills. Good organisational skills and the ability to function under
pressure and as part of a team. Ability to accept accountability and
responsibility and to work independently.
DUTIES : Assist patients with activities of daily living (Physical care). Provide elementary
clinical nursing care. Maintain professional growth/ethical standards and self-
development. Effective functioning within multi-disciplinary team. Effective
utilisation of resources.
ENQUIRIES : Mr. NM Goeieman Tel No: (027) 482 2166
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical test. Candidates who are not in
possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also apply. Such
candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition that proof of
application for registration to register with the relevant council and proof of
payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable on health professionals who apply for the first time for registration in
a specific category with the relevant council (including individuals who must
apply for change in registration status).
POST 28/234 : STERILISATION OPERATOR PRODUCTION (CSSD)
SALARY : R170 226 per annum
CENTRE : Tygerberg Hospital, Parow Valley
193
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: General Education and Training Certificate
(GETC)/ Grade 9 (Std 7). Experience: Appropriate experience in a Central
Sterilization Service Department. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Good
communication and interpersonal skills. Ability to work in a co-operative way
within a team context. Basic understanding of disinfection, decontamination
and sterilisation. Inherent requirements of the job: Willingness to work shifts
including weekends, public holidays and night duty. Willingness to rotate within
the CSSD department.
DUTIES : Effective application of sterilisation processes and techniques.
Promote/adhere to infection control, as well as health and safety regulations.
Check, decontaminate, pack and sterilise instruments, linen and supplies.
Assist with cleaning and testing of sterilisation equipment, disinfectant washers
and autoclaves, lift and pushing heavy equipment. Maintain equipment in an
optimum working condition and utilise resources. Use autoclaves, disinfectant
washers and equipment/consumables in a cost-effective manner. Ensure
surgical instrument trays is packed and marked correctly. Monitor, control and
maintain adequate stock levels, report and assist with the investigation of lost
instruments/ equipment.
ENQUIRIES : Ms V Dubase Tel No: (021) 938-4000
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Shortlisted
candidates will be subjected to a practical assessment.
POST 28/235 : HOUSEHOLD AID
Garden Route District
SALARY : R144 024 per annum
CENTRE : Mossel Bay Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum requirement: Basic numeracy and literacy skills. Experience:
Appropriate experience in a household / cleaning environment in a health
facility. Inherent requirement of the job: Willingness to work weekends, shifts,
overtime, public holidays and night duty. The ability to do physical tasks and
operate heavy duty cleaning and household equipment. Willingness to assists
in other wards when needed. Competencies (knowledge/skills): Basic
knowledge of cleaning equipment. Support to housekeeping supervisor and
adhere to policies and cleaning practices. Appropriate knowledge of stock,
assets, linen and equipment control.
DUTIES : Deliver an effective cleaning service such as dusting, washing, scrubbing,
polishing, washing and refuse removal. Adhere to safety measures and ensure
adherence to occupational health and safety policies and Infection prevention
control measures. Render assistance to the supervisor with general
housekeeping duties such as control of cleaning and household equipment,
care and control of linen and serving of meals to patients.
ENQUIRIES : Ms JA Mahlangu Tel No: (044) 604-6104
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
may be subjected to a competency test.
POST 28/236 : MEDICAL SPECIALIST GRADE 1 TO 3 (ANAESTHETICS) (10 SESSIONS
PER WEEK)
Chief Directorate: Metro Health Services
(3-Year Contract)
SALARY : Grade 1: R671 per hour
Grade 2: R766 per hour
Grade 3: R887 per hour
CENTRE : Mowbray Maternity Hospital
REQUIREMENTS : Minimum educational qualification: Appropriate qualification that allows
registration with the Health Professional Council of South Africa (HPCSA) as a
Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Registration with a professional council:
Registration with the HPCSA as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia.
Experience: Grade 1: None after registration with the HPCSA as a Medical
Specialist in Anaesthesia. Grade 2: A minimum of 5 years’ appropriate
experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the HPCSA (or
recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign qualified
employees) as Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Grade 3: A minimum of 10
years’ appropriate experience as Medical Specialist after registration with the
HPCSA (or recognised foreign Health Professional Council in respect of foreign
qualified employee) as a Medical Specialist in Anaesthesia. Inherent
194
requirement of the job: A valid driver’s licence. Competencies
(knowledge/skills): Appropriate experience in obstetric anaesthesia. Ability to
work in a team and with all levels of staff. Interest in training junior anaesthetists
and students in a career in anaesthesia. Computer literacy.
DUTIES : To deliver comprehensive anaesthesia and critical care services to patients in
theatre and the wards at Mowbray maternity Hospital. Pre-operative,
intraoperative and post-operative anaesthetic management of surgical
patients. Perform clinical teaching and training of interns, students and nursing
colleagues. Rotating through the hospitals affiliated with the University of Cape
Town, namely Groote Schuur Hospital, New Somerset Hospital and Mowbray
Maternity Hospital. Management duties such as statistics, presentations and
research. Management of the epidural and pain service at Mowbray Maternity
Hospital.
ENQUIRIES : Dr C Pfister Tel No: (021) 404-5001
NOTE : No payment of any kind is required when applying for this post. Candidates
who are not in possession of the stipulated registration requirements may also
apply. Such candidates will only be considered for appointment on condition
that proof of application for registration to register with the relevant council and
proof of payment of the prescribed registration fees to the relevant council are
submitted on or before the day of the interview. This concession is only
applicable to candidates who apply for the first time for registration in a specific
category with the relevant council (including individuals who must apply for
change in registration status)”.
195